“End of Abundance in Tech” by Ben DeBow is released with Forbes Books This release is posted on behalf of Forbes Books (operated by Advantage Media Group under license). NEW YORK (August 1, 2023) — End of Abundance in Tech: How IT Leaders Can Find Efficiencies to Drive Business Value, by Ben DeBow is now available. The book is published with Forbes Books, the exclusive business book publishing imprint of Forbes, and is available on Amazon today. The latest work from the founder and CEO of Fortified Data—a data consulting and workload analytics SaaS company—explores how businesses waste billions of dollars every year due to a lack of attention, awareness, or expertise in measuring the health and efficiency of technology systems as companies scale. DeBow believes that no matter the industry, businesses must pivot their mindsets away from the era of abundance to the era of efficiency. End of Abundance in Tech explores how understanding workload analytics and identifying inefficiencies within technology platforms—mostly around code and processes—can save enterprises millions of dollars. "The health and efficiency of technology systems are key differentiators for businesses today seeking a competitive edge. Enterprises are being called to shift their focus towards code and process efficiency to not only reduce long-term costs but also contribute positively to the environment," said DeBow. "This book aims to guide you in crafting a strategic blueprint that generates lasting productivity benefits, controls expenditure, and propels us into a new era beyond mere abundance." DeBow’s systemized approach for improving the health and efficiency of technology systems makes today’s accepted Technology KPIs obsolete. With insights from boots-on-the-ground IT and data experts from retail, healthcare, and finance – and from the vantage point of both financial and environmental sustainability – DeBow presents an action plan to define and assess workload health metrics to impact real change. About Ben DeBow Ben DeBow is the founder and CEO of Fortified Data, a data consulting and workload analytics SaaS company. His background in designing some of the initial private clouds for data, and his ability to quickly identify and solve data problems, is hailed by enterprises including Allstate, Royal Bank of Canada, Intuit, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Chase, Global Payments, and Sabre. DeBow has earned degrees in information systems and accounting from the University of Cincinnati. He is a member of the Entrepreneurs’ Organization (EO), which enables him to meet fellow business leaders from across the world. He lives and works in Charlotte, NC. About Forbes Books Launched in 2016 in partnership with Advantage Media Group, Forbes Books is the exclusive business book publishing imprint of Forbes. Forbes Books offers business and thought leaders an innovative, speed-to-market, fee-based publishing model and a suite of services designed to strategically and tactically support authors and promote their expertise. For more information, visit books.forbes.com. Media Contacts Forbes Books Media Contact: Terry Stanton, tstanton@forbesbooks.com 