
UPDATED 10:42 EDT / MARCH 17 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Henrietta Vogt

 As the edge continues to develop , deployments become larger scale and more difficult to properly monetize.  Because the edge is a data-driven model, it requires API access and therefore can be charged for easily, according to Chris Falloon (pictured), senior managing director of the global telecom practice at Dell Technologies Inc. But could a more innovative model for monetization be brought to the table? “This industry has been given an opportunity to monetize almost every major transformation in technology, and many of them have slipped through our fingers,” said Chris Falloon, senior managing director of Global Telecom Practice at Dell Technologies. “ [Telecom] is different because it’s inextricably tied to the network.” Falloon spoke with theCUBE industry analysts Dave Vellante and Lisa Martin at MWC 2023, during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed developments in the telecommunications industry, edge deployment logistics and security. (* Disclosure below.) As the cloud grows larger, security moves closer to the forefront. Dell’s philosophy of intrinsic security allows it to ensure security has been taken into account at all levels, from infrastructure to the supply chain, according to Falloon. “The learnings from these last 10 years of integration is … that understanding what the major blockers are should provide us with an accelerated roadmap for solving some of these problems as we encounter them over the next year or two in telecoms,” he said. The cloud is a complex, yet fairly hardened environment. With so many people managing safety across the cloud, collaboration on security is a must, Falloon added. “The cloud brings a shared responsibility model. If it’s multicloud, which it is, then it’s shared responsibility across multiple clouds,” he explained. “You’ve now got developers who are being asked to be responsible for security.” Another major trend that came out at MWC 2023 was the increasing importance of silicon from suppliers such as Broadcom, Qualcomm and others. These suppliers are delivering supporting components that are rapidly becoming the linchpin of future systems price and performance gains. Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of the MWC 2023 event:  (* Disclosure: TheCUBE is a paid media partner for MWC 2023. Neither Dell Technologies Inc., the primary sponsor for theCUBE’s event coverage, nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU Quantum Circuits raises $60M to build scalable error-correcting quantum platform Pindrop says it can detect deepfake audio with 99% accuracy HPE to acquire Morpheus Data to round out hybrid cloud orchestration capabilities Toolkit from Tavus lets developers create video 'digital twins' that converse just like humans New report identifies critical vulnerabilities found in open-source tools used in AI TigerEye releases open-source DuckDB.dart to simplify data-intensive application development Quantum Circuits raises $60M to build scalable error-correcting quantum platform EMERGING TECH - BY KYT DOTSON . 1 HOUR AGO Pindrop says it can detect deepfake audio with 99% accuracy AI - BY PAUL GILLIN . 1 HOUR AGO HPE to acquire Morpheus Data to round out hybrid cloud orchestration capabilities CLOUD - BY PAUL GILLIN . 2 HOURS AGO Toolkit from Tavus lets developers create video 'digital twins' that converse just like humans AI - BY PAUL GILLIN . 5 HOURS AGO New report identifies critical vulnerabilities found in open-source tools used in AI SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 5 HOURS AGO TigerEye releases open-source DuckDB.dart to simplify data-intensive application development BIG DATA - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 5 HOURS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.