(Bloomberg) -- Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni’s government proposed Flavio Cattaneo as the new chief executive officer of energy company Enel SpA, resolving a spat within her governing coalition. Most Read from Bloomberg US-Saudi Oil Pact Breaking Down as Russia Grabs Upper Hand US Arrests 21-Year-Old National Guardsman in Classified Documents Leak PBS Joins NPR in Quitting Twitter Over State-Backed Label Arnault's Wealth Soars to $210 Billion, Leaving Musk in the Dust JPMorgan Calls Managing Directors to Office Five Days a Week Cattaneo, currently executive vice president at rail company Italo SpA and previously a top executive at Telecom Italia SpA and Terna SpA, was proposed to replace Francesco Starace, who led the state-controlled utility for three terms, according to a finance ministry statement. Veteran executive Paolo Scaroni was proposed as chairman. Scaroni, who’s served as chairman at soccer club AC Milan and as an executive at Rothschild, is a close ally of former Premier Silvio Berlusconi. As Eni SpA’s CEO he worked to deepen ties with Russia’s Gazprom. Meloni reportedly had initially backed Terna chief Stefano Donnarumma for the post at Enel, but ultimately the candidate favored by League leader Matteo Salvini and other coalition parties won out. The government also proposed former Energy Minister Roberto Cingolani to be CEO at defense company Leonardo SpA, replacing Alessandro Profumo. Cingolani served as minister during Mario Draghi’s government. Prior to that he was Leonardo’s chief technology and innovation officer. Claudio Descalzi was confirmed as Meloni’s choice to continue leading oil company Eni, a widely expected move after the executive played a key role in helping Italy steer away from dependence on Russian energy in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine. He was named for a fourth consecutive term. “This is a great result as a consequence of a teamwork,” Meloni said after the announcement. “Their task is to get solid and lasting results in the interest of the nation.” Meloni’s moves around state-controlled firms could give the government greater sway over key portions of Italy’s economy, and the decisions will be closely scrutinized by investors and analysts. Energy groups Enel and Eni alone combine for a market valuation of about €110 billion ($120 billion) and account for over 18% of the Milan benchmark FTSE MIB index’s capitalization. All the nominees will have to be confirmed by shareholders at the companies’ annual general meetings in the coming weeks. --With assistance from Flavia Rotondi and Chiara Albanese. (Updates with Meloni in seventh paragraph. A previous version corrected spelling of Rothschild.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek A Smart Gun Is Finally Here, But Does Anyone Want It? There Are No Fees at America’s Smallest Bank Inside the IRS’s Shrinking Band of Wealth Hunters A Runner’s Murder in Kenya Opens a Window Into Violence Against Women The Business of … Death ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.