In a report released today, Matthew O’Brien from Piper Sandler maintained a Hold rating on Teleflex (TFX – Research Report), with a price target of $210.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $204.02. According to TipRanks, O’Brien is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 3.0% and a 48.09% success rate. O’Brien covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Sight Sciences, Boston Scientific, and Staar Surgical. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Teleflex with a $265.78 average price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $275.64  and a one-year low of $181.58. Currently, Teleflex has an average volume of 281.7K.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Teleflex (TFX) Company Description: Teleflex, Inc. provides medical technology products which enables healthcare providers to improve patient outcomes and enhance patient and provider safety. The company designs, develops, manufactures and supplies single-use medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications. It operates through the following business segments: Americas, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa), Asia (Asia Pacific) and OEM. The Americas segment engages in the sales of interventional urology products. The EMEA engages in the sales of urology products. The Asia segment designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices primarily used in critical care, surgical applications and cardiac care and generally serves hospitals and healthcare providers. The OEM segment designs, manufactures and supplies devices and instruments for other medical device manufacturers. Teleflex was founded in 1943 and is headquartered in Wayne, PA. 
 Read More on TFX: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks