or Remember me or WAYNE, Pa., May 15, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Teleflex Incorporated (NYSE: TFX), a leading global provider of medical technologies, today announced it has published its 2022 Global Impact Report. The report outlines recent accomplishments and sets new targets to support the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and aligns with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
  
 “At Teleflex, we have a business strategy to drive long-term durable growth. Part of this strategy is to advance corporate social responsibility and an inclusive culture,” said Liam Kelly, Chairman, President, and CEO of Teleflex. “The integration of CSR into our three-year growth strategy strengthens our commitment and efforts in working towards a more sustainable and inclusive society.” “I am excited to announce that Teleflex has just released our third annual Global Impact Report, which provides information related to the practical ways we address evolving Environmental, Social and Governance standards,” said Karen Boylan, Corporate Vice President, Strategic Projects and Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibly Steering Committee at Teleflex. “I am extremely proud of the progress we have made in achieving results and in setting new measurable goals for the years to come.” The 2022 Global Impact Report outlines accomplishments and plans for each of the company’s four CSR pillars: Principals of Ethics & Governance, Planet & Environment, People, and Prosperity & Sustainable Healthcare. Highlights from this year’s report include: Read the full 2022 Global Impact Report at https://teleflex.com/usa/en/about-us/csr/index.html About Teleflex Incorporated

  Teleflex is a global provider of medical technologies designed to improve the health and quality of people’s lives. We apply purpose driven innovation – a relentless pursuit of identifying unmet clinical needs – to benefit patients and healthcare providers. Our portfolio is diverse, with solutions in the fields of vascular access, interventional cardiology and radiology, anesthesia, emergency medicine, surgical, urology and respiratory care. Teleflex employees worldwide are united in the understanding that what we do every day makes a difference. For more information, please visit teleflex.com. Teleflex is the home of Arrow®, Deknatel®, LMA®, Pilling®, QuikClot®, Rüsch®, UroLift®, and Weck® – trusted brands united by a common sense of purpose. Forward-Looking Statements

  Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. These risks and uncertainties are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Teleflex, the Teleflex logo, Arrow, Deknatel, LMA, Pilling, QuikClot, Rüsch, UroLift, and Weck, list all Teleflex-owned trademarks in alphabetical order] are trademarks or registered trademarks of Teleflex Incorporated or its affiliates, in the U.S. and/or other countries.

© 2023 Teleflex Incorporated. All rights reserved.  Contacts:

  Teleflex
  
  Lawrence Keusch
  
  Vice President, Investor Relations and Strategy Development
  
 investor.relations@teleflex.com

  610-948-2836  Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today