Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 26 Jan, 2023, 14:30 GMT Share this article The market report is a good combination of qualitative and quantitative data that highlights significant market changes, obstacles that business and the competition must overcome, as well as new possibilities and trends in the global Ureteral Stents Market. JERSEY CITY, N.J., Jan. 26, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Verified Market Research® recently published a report, "Ureteral Stents Market" By Product Type (Open End Stents, Double J-Stent), By Material (Metallic Ureteral Stents, Polymer Ureteral Stents), By Application (Kidney Transplantation, Tumors), By End-User (Hospitals And Clinics, Ambulatory Surgical Centers Or ASCs), and By Geography. As per the deep research carried out by Verified Market Research®, the global Ureteral Stents Market size was valued at USD 461.79 Million in 2021 and is projected to reach USD 786.83 Million by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 6.1% from 2023 to 2030. Download PDF Brochure: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/download-sample/?rid=32523 Browse in-depth TOC on "Ureteral Stents Market" 202 - Pages 126 – Tables 37 – Figures Global Ureteral Stents Market Overview A ureteral stent is a thin hollow tube with an innovative design that is inserted into the ureter to restore urine flow and return the kidney to normal function. Their upper section is supported by the kidney, while the opposite end coils around the bladder. They're used in urology to keep the ureter open and allow for proper urine outflow. They are typically implanted using a cystoscope and can be positioned correctly using various endourological procedures. The Ureteral Stents Market is predicted to rise significantly during the forecast period, owing to an increase in the incidence of urological disorders caused by microorganism colonization or sedentary lifestyle. The important drivers driving the growth of the Ureteral Stents Market share include an increase in the number of kidney transplants, an increase in the geriatric population, and technological developments in stent composition materials. Furthermore, advances in ureteral stent technology, such as the use of biodegradable materials, and apps on smartphones have led to more efficient and improved detection and outcomes for urinary and renal problems. Furthermore, prominent competitors are concentrating on minimizing stent migration, ureterovesical reflux, and tissue irritation during the treatment, which is expected to boost the market growth. On the contrary, a shortage of experienced specialists, a lack of technological penetration, the high cost of the operation, and rigorous regulations are impeding market expansion. However, the leading companies are concentrating on lowering stent migration, ureterovesical reflux, and tissue irritation during the treatment, which is expected to boost the market growth. Verified Market Research® narrows down the available data using primary sources to validate the data and use it in compiling a full-fledged market research study. The report contains a quantitative and qualitative estimation of market elements that interests the client. The "Global Ureteral Stents Market" is mainly bifurcated into sub-segments which can provide classified data regarding the latest trends in the market. Key Players The "Global Ureteral Stents Market" study report will provide valuable insight with an emphasis on the global market.  The major players in the market are Boston Scientific Corporation, Coloplast Ltd., Allium Medical Solutions Ltd., Becton, Dickinson and Company, Cook Group Incorporated, B. Braun Melsungen AG, C.R. Bard, Teleflex Incorporated, Olympus Corporation, and Biomerics, among others. Based on the research, Verified Market Research® has segmented the global Ureteral Stents Market into Product Type, Material, Application, End-User, and Geography. Browse Related Reports: Coronary Stent Market By Product Type (Drug Eluting Stents, Bioabsorbable Stents), By Design (Permanent coronary Stents, Fully degradable coronary stents), By Material (Metallic, Polymeric), By End-User (Hospitals, Cardiac Centers), By Geography, And Forecast Drug-Eluting Stents Market By Product (Polymer-Based, Polymer-Free), By Application (Coronary Diseases, Peripheral Vascular Diseases), By End-User (Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, Cardiology Centers), By Geography, And Forecast Airway Stent/Lung Stent Market By Product (Tracheal Stents, Laryngeal Stents), By Application (Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgery Centers), By Geography, And Forecast Nephrology Stents And Catheters Market By Product (Nephrology Stents, Nephrology Catheters), By Application (Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, Specialty Clinics), By Geography, And Forecast Top Cardiac Catheter Sensor Companies fueling the halted healthcare industry Visualize Ureteral Stents Market using Verified Market Intelligence -: Verified Market Intelligence is our BI Enabled Platform for narrative storytelling in this market. VMI offers in-depth forecasted trends and accurate Insights on over 20,000+ emerging & niche markets, helping you make critical revenue-impacting decisions for a brilliant future. VMI provides a holistic overview and global competitive landscape with respect to Region, Country, Segment, and Key players of your market. Present your Market Report & findings with an inbuilt presentation feature saving over 70% of your time and resources for Investor, Sales & Marketing, R&D, and Product Development pitches. VMI enables data delivery In Excel and Interactive PDF formats with over 15+ Key Market Indicators for your market. About Us Verified Market Research® is a leading Global Research and Consulting firm servicing over 5000+ customers. Verified Market Research® provides advanced analytical research solutions while offering information-enriched research studies. We offer insight into strategic and growth analyses, Data necessary to achieve corporate goals and critical revenue decisions. Our 250 Analysts and SMEs offer a high level of expertise in data collection and governance use industrial techniques to collect and analyze data on more than 15,000 high impact and niche markets. Our analysts are trained to combine modern data collection techniques, superior research methodology, expertise and years of collective experience to produce informative and accurate research. We study 14+ categories from Semiconductors & Electronics, Chemicals, Advanced Materials, Aerospace & Defense, Energy & Power, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Automotive & Transportation, Information & Communication Technology, Software & Services, Information Security, Mining, Minerals & Metals, Building & Construction, Agriculture industry and Medical Devices from over 100 countries. Contact Us Mr. Edwyne FernandesVerified Market Research®US: +1 (650)-781-4080UK: +44 (753)-715-0008APAC: +61 (488)-85-9400US Toll Free: +1 (800)-782-1768Email: sales@verifiedmarketresearch.comWeb: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/Follow Us: LinkedIn | Twitter Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1315349/Verified_Market_Research_Logo.jpg  The Global 3D NAND Flash Memory Market Size is projected to grow at a CAGR of 19.5% from 2024 to 2031, according to a new report published by... The Global Big Data Analytics in Banking Market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 13.5% from 2024 to 2030, according to a new report published by... Medical Pharmaceuticals Medical Equipment Health Care & Hospitals Pharmaceuticals