
                
                    
                        Let MedTech Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The appointments come less than a month after the company elevated Ivan Tornos to the CEO position. Name: Mark Bezjak New title: President of the Americas Previous title: President of North America Name: Wilfred van Zuilen New title: Group president, EMEA Previous title: President, EMEA Name: Nitin Goyal New title: Chief science, technology and innovation officer and member of executive leadership team Previous title: Chief science, technology and innovation officer Zimmer Biomet has promoted three top executives under new CEO Ivan Tornos, who took the helm at the orthopedic device maker late last month after Bryan Hanson departed to lead 3M’s health business. Wilfred van Zuilen has been promoted to group president, EMEA, from president, EMEA, and Mark Bezjak was promoted to president of the Americas, from president of North America. Bezjak joined Zimmer Biomet in April 2008 as director of corporate sales and has been president of North America since 2021. In his expanded role, he will add oversight of Latin America to his current responsibilities for all marketing and distribution activities in North America. Before joining Zimmer Biomet, Bezjak held roles at Teleflex Medical and Michelin Tire. Van Zuilen, who joined Zimmer Biomet in June 2021, will continue to be responsible for sales, marketing and distribution of products in the EMEA region and will lead global R&D projects in his expanded role. He was regional vice president for North Western Europe at Medtronic before joining Zimmer Biomet. In addition, Nitin Goyal, Zimmer Biomet’s chief science, technology and innovation officer, was appointed to the executive leadership team. Goyal, a practicing hip and knee reconstruction surgeon, will continue to head global innovation, medical education, clinical affairs and reimbursement strategy for the company. “These appointments demonstrate the continued evolution of our business strategy as we remain focused on developing our team to drive value for patients, customers and all stakeholders," Tornos said in a statement.  Analysts have predicted “business as usual” at Zimmer Biomet under Tornos, the company’s former chief operating officer, with a focus on acquisitions and accelerating margin expansion efforts. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The company outlined its long-term growth expectations and confirmed that it has no plans to separate its medtech and pharma segments. From the start, the DNA sequencing leader faced pressure to unwind its $8 billion acquisition of the cancer screening developer. As 2023 drew to a close, it has finally agreed. Subscribe to MedTech Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The company outlined its long-term growth expectations and confirmed that it has no plans to separate its medtech and pharma segments. From the start, the DNA sequencing leader faced pressure to unwind its $8 billion acquisition of the cancer screening developer. As 2023 drew to a close, it has finally agreed. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines