BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA / ACCESSWIRE / March 10, 2023 / Cablevisión Holding S.A., ("Cablevision Holding", "CVH" or "the Company") CVHCVH(Level 1: CVHSY), controlling shareholder of Telecom Argentina S.A. TEOTECO, announced today its Full Year and Last Quarter 2022 Results. Figures have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") and are stated in constant Argentine Pesos ("Ps." or "P$") as of December 31, 2022, unless otherwise indicated. The Company's Management has applied IAS 29 (inflation adjustment) in the preparation of these financial statements, following the provisions of Resolution 777/18, issued by the Comisión Nacional de Valores ("CNV"). CVH Highlights (2022 vs. 2021): FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (1) EBITDA is defined as Total Revenues minus operating cost and expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization). We believe that EBITDA is a meaningful measure of our performance. It is commonly used to analyze and compare media companies based on operating performance, leverage and liquidity. Nonetheless, EBITDA is not a measure of net income or cash flow from operations and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, an indication of our financial performance, an alternative to cash flow from operating activities or a measure of liquidity. Other companies may compute EBITDA in a different manner; therefore, EBITDA as reported by other companies may not be comparable to EBITDA as we report it. (2) EBITDA Margin is defined as EBITDA over Total Revenues .  CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST INFORMATION CABLEVISIÓN HOLDING S.A CVH cordially invites you to participate in its Webcast Presentationto discuss the Full Year and Last Quarter 2022 Results Date: Tuesday, March 14, 2023 Time: 1:00pm Buenos Aires Time/12:00pm New York Time/4:00pm London To access the live stream and slide presentation, visit: https://event.choruscall.com/mediaframe/webcast.html?webcastid=VCwcLgDS The webcast presentation will also be available at: https://www.cablevisionholding.com/Investors ABOUT THE COMPANY CVH was founded as corporate spin-off from Grupo Clarín S.A. and it is the first Argentine holding company that engages in the development of infrastructure and the provision of convergent telecommunications services, focusing on Argentina and the region. CVH's subsidiaries specialize in the provision of cable TV, broadband and mobile communications services; and their brands are well known in the telecommunications and content distribution industries. Disclaimer Some of the information in this press release may contain projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of CVH. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "expect", "believe", "anticipate", "estimate", "intend", "will", "could", "may" or "might" the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. These statements are only predictions and actual events or results may differ materially. CVH does not intend to or undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect events and circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained in CVH's projections or forward-looking statements, including, among others, general economic conditions, CVH's competitive environment, risks associated with operating in Argentina a, rapid technological and market change, and other factors specifically related to CVH and its operations. Investor Relations Contacts: In Buenos Aires: Cablevisión Holding S.A. Samantha Olivieri, Head of Investor Relations Email: ir@cvh.com.ar Tel: (+54 11) 4309 - 3417 www.cvh.com.ar In New York:Fig Corporate CommunicationsCamilla Ferreira and Marcella Ewerton DragoneEmail: fig@fig.ooo Tel: +1 917 691-4047 SOURCE: Cablevisión Holding S.A. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Sort by estimates, projected upside, profit surprises, and more to easily find new stocks to invest in or check up on your portfolio. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.