Telefonica.com  • Telefónica’s Director Chief Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Officer, Eduardo Navarro, defends the need to "create better conditions for the advancement of digitalisation in Brazil, through a major review of the sector's regulation", such as the public consultation launched in Brazil on Fair Share to implement a new equitable regulation among all digital agents.  25/04/2023 Telefónica’s Director Chief of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Officer, Eduardo Navarro, participated in the Spain-Brazil Business Meeting, on the occasion of the visit to Spain of the President of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Navarro took part in the panel ‘Success stories of Spanish companies in Brazil’, in which he stressed that “it is essential to create better conditions for the advancement of digitalisation in the country through a major review of the regulation of the sector”. Navarro framed this reflection in the “great wave of digitalisation” to which we are heading when “Telefónica has been leading the digital transformation process in Brazil for more than 20 years and is already the largest foreign, Spanish and European investor, with more than 88,500 million euros, as well as with a clear social commitment and innovative, technological and business leadership”. For this reason, the Director Chief of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Officer defends the need for greater public-private collaboration, as “telecommunications operators are no longer solely responsible for installing networks and digital infrastructure, but it is now a shared responsibility. Both the public sector and other digital actors need to engage and collaborate in deployment and investment”. In this sense, he highlighted the leadership of the Brazilian regulator, ANATEL, in presenting a public consultation on Fair Share, similar to the one launched by the European Commission last February, on digital services; use and traffic in telecommunication networks; competitive aspects, etc. in order to implement a new balanced, equitable and symmetrical regulation among all digital players. The Spain-Brazil Business Meeting was organised by the Spanish Chamber of Commerce, CEOE and ApexBrasil, and the panel was also attended by Jesús Martínez, CEO Latam of Mapfre; Mario Ruiz-Tagle, CEO of Iberdrola Spain, and was moderated by Xiana Méndez Bértolo, Secretary of State for Trade. Telefónica Telefónica Yanina Chalup Lourdes Lázaro Eva Georgieva Thank you for your sending We have just sent you an email to confirm your subscription. If you are already subscribed to any of our sections this email will not reach you. Gonzalo López-Barajas Juan Montero Rodil Dácil Jiménez Delgado Nuria Talayero San Miguel Contact our communication department or requests additional material. Thank you for your sending We have just sent you an email to confirm your subscription. If you are already subscribed to any of our sections this email will not reach you. To make our world more human, by connecting lives.