Open menu OneFootball's home page Search Settings Sign In In partnership with PSG Talk ·26 April 2023 FC Barcelona is pursuing Lionel Messi this summer when the 35-year-old becomes a free agent in June after his contract with Paris Saint-Germain expires. However, their main hurdle is the finances; nonetheless, the Spanish club has developed a plan to bring the Argentine back to Camp Nou. AS reported on Wednesday that Barcelona plans to use their La Masia youth academy as their latest financial lever to have Messi return. The club is looking into the prospect of transforming the former headquarters of the academy, which is located next to Camp Nou, into a Messi-themed museum. The Spanish media outlet has held talks with Spanish telecommunications enterprise Telefónica about shifting the facility into an interactive museum, which would be a world leader in its use of cutting-edge technology, dedicated to the 2022 FIFA World Cup winner. According to the club’s business plan, the ‘Messi Museum’ would draw thousands of tourists and fans worldwide, which would help fund their move to bring the seven-time Ballon d’Or winner back to Camp Nou. While Barcelona is doing everything possible to reunite with Messi, it could be PSG who has the upper hand in the sweepstakes as they’re the veteran goal scorer’s priority. Roma Star Yet to Give Clear Answer on Saudi Arabia Interest Amid Recent PSG Links PSG Talk Sancho’s PSG Move Fades as Man Utd Plot Last-Minute Swoop for Outcast Midfielder PSG Talk Manchester United bide their time with Manuel Ugarte to force PSG reduction Stretty News PSG Submit €20M Bid for Palmeiras Ace Linked to AC Milan and Man Utd This Summer PSG Talk Manchester United Pursue Loan with Obligation to Buy for PSG’s €60M-Rated Star, Romano Says PSG Talk 3️⃣ things we learned as Vardy resurgence earns Leicester draw with Spurs Leicester fought back to draw 1-1 with Tottenham at the King Power Stadium on another iconic night for Jamie Vardy.

Here is what we made of events at the King Power... Chelsea agree Joao Felix return with Conor Gallagher to complete Atletico Madrid move Portuguese forward to clinch unlikely Stamford Bridge comeback after deal for team-mate Samu Omorodion collapsedChelsea are closing in on the signing of Joao Felix, in a deal that will pave... Jude Bellingham scolds new teammate Kylian Mbappe and Real Madrid forwards: ‘Finish the attack’ Jude Bellingham appeared to issue an expletive-laden message to his teammates during Real Madrid’s draw with Mallorca.

The defending La Liga champions were expected to cruise to victory after adding Kylian... In partnership with OneFootball is proud to partner with Yahoo! Sports to deliver quality football content to fans in USA and Canada. OneFootball's home page © 2024 OneFootball