(Bloomberg) -- Spain is analyzing Saudi Telecom Co.’s plan to become Telefonica SA’s largest shareholder, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said, balancing a welcome for foreign investment with being wary of “undue influence.” Most Read from Bloomberg Wall Street Comes to Grips With How Wrong It’s Been in 2023 MGM Resorts Hackers Broke In After Tricking IT Service Desk The World Is Struggling to Make Enough Diesel House Republicans Prepare to Turn US Government Shutdown Into Immigration Clash US, Chinese Officials Meet in Malta in Bid to Keep Channels Open “The government is analyzing the investment operation thoroughly,” Sanchez said on Friday at an event in Madrid. “We will guarantee that at all times national defense and security, understood in a broad sense, will be safeguarded. We also guarantee that any foreign investment will not exceed the limits that would involve undue influence over strategic companies or access to critical technologies.” Sanchez, who didn’t mention the firms by name, said in his first comments since the deal was announced last week that interest from large international investors in Spanish companies is “always good news.” In what’s one more test of Europe’s appetite for investment from Gulf states, Saudi Telecom plans to take a nearly 10% stake in Telefonica for about $2.25 billion as the struggling Madrid-based carrier prepares to lay out a new strategy for future growth. If approved, the stake purchase would turn Saudi Telecom into Telefonica’s largest shareholder, surpassing Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Blackrock Inc. and CaixaBank SA, which each own less than 5%. At the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, Spain introduced restrictions on foreign investments by entities from outside Europe to protect companies whose valuations had plummeted. The government recently amended the rules, lowering the threshold for which authorization is required from 10% to 5% for companies related to defense. “The government has the necessary instruments to protect its national sovereignty and its strategic interests, such as the access to critical technologies particularly in the area of security and defense,” Sanchez said. “Spanish legislation on control of foreign investments is among the most rigorous in Europe.” Telefonica is a provider of systems and equipment to Spain’s military and defense ministry, according to the government. Shares of Telefonica were little changed in Madrid trading on Friday. The stock has climbed about 16% this year. In his speech, which evolved around the topic of strengthening free trade, Sanchez argued that the European Union has to launch a new commercial expansion based on consolidating and diversifying its ties abroad. “This expansion should have as its main objective those countries that share with us principles, values and also interests,” he said. The Saudi firm’s planned holding, which consists of a 4.9% stake in shares and an additional 5% through financial instruments, stirred debate about the protection of strategic assets. Saudi Telecom is Saudi Arabia’s largest telecommunications company. Most of it is owned by a sovereign fund through which Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman aims to wean the economy off its dependence on oil. Telefonica earlier this month described Saudi Telecom’s move as “friendly,” noting its “support for the management team, Telefonica’s strategy and ability to create value.” (Updates with share performance in eighth paragraph, additional comments from Sanchez in 10th) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek How Sam Bankman-Fried’s Elite Parents Enabled His Crypto Empire An Online Startup Pitches a New Kind of MBA The Massive Guatemalan Operation That Wants to Sell Americans Their Old Clothes Back The Best Times to Buy Your Concert Tickets China’s Boom Is Over, But It’s Not a Bust ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.