Navigate the intricacies of PTA tax and customs duty on the Xiaomi Redmi Note 9 series with our comprehensive guide. Uncover the details and regulations to ensure a smooth import process and make informed decisions on your smartphone acquisitions. Stay informed on the financial aspects associated with importing the Redmi Note 9 series into Pakistan and embark on a hassle-free journey through the PTA and customs procedures. Xiaomi Redmi Note 9 PTA tax needs to be paid if you are importing them to Pakistan. Disclaimer: Taxes are approximate and may vary from 5–10%, not more. Want to know the import duties on other smartphones / mobile phones? Xiaomi Redmi Note 9 PTA tax and exact customs duty are mentioned above to help you know the exact cost that you’d be incurring for importing the smartphone to Pakistan. You’d have to pay this particular customs duty amount, or your mobile device will be blocked within 60 days after arrival. And luckily, now you can dial *8484# or visit the PTA Dirbs Portal to know about the tax amount that can easily be paid in any “Telecom Franchise (Jazz, Ufone, Telenor, Zong)” near you. Here’s the link to the PTA Dirbs Portal, if you need more information. PTA Taxes Portal Find PTA Taxes on All Phones on a Single Page using the PhoneWorld PTA Taxes Portal Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Please enable JavaScript to submit this form. Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  Notify me of follow-up comments by email.  Notify me of new posts by email.  

  Δ  PhoneWorld is the most popular news and analysis website in Pakistan. It focuses on the mobile ecosystem and covers the latest news and hot topics. We offer comprehensive coverage of industry-related topics, including policy, regulations, operators, distribution, application development, devices, and academia. Readmore 
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Contact Us Session expired Please log in again.
The login page will open in a new tab. After logging in you can close it and return to this page.