Malaysian carrier CelcomDigi announced partnerships with Chinese vendors Huawei Technologies and ZTE for the purchase of network services, solutions and equipment for its nationwide network integration and modernization project. In a release, the Asian operator said that it recently launched a program to build a digital network integrating and modernizing its 4G network with the latest LTE and 5G-ready technologies.  This plan follows the merger of Celcom and Digi in December 2022. The project will entail upgrades and site consolidation of almost 25,000 existing Celcom and Digi sites nationwide. It will involve close to 800 engineers and more than 250 specialized contractor teams for nationwide installation works, the telco said.  Under the various agreements, CelcomDigi will modernize its nationwide Radio Access Network (RAN) with equipment and services from both Huawei and ZTE. The technology solutions will leverage CelcomDigi’s existing spectrum, and utilize the latest tri-band radio units, dualband radio units, and baseband radio units. Both Huawei and ZTE will also manage network densification and site upgrade projects, the Malaysian carrier said. CelcomDigi’s CEO, Datuk Idham Nawawi, said: “With our combined expertise and resources, the modernized, future-proof network will strengthen CelcomDigi’s ability to better meet customer expectations, maintain our competitive edge, and meet the data demands of an evolving digital landscape. Our integrated and modernized network will be a critical piece in driving CelcomDigi’s ambitions to be the new digital growth engine for the nation that supports the seamless coexistence and evolution of 4G/LTE and future technologies, including 5G.”  The company also highlighted that this new network is designed to be able to potentially transition seamlessly into a new 5G network with an 18,000-site reach. The carrier said new network will improve reach from current 96% to 98% of populated areas in Malaysia.  In December 2022, Axiata Group and Telenor Group had completed the merger of Malaysian operators Celcom and Digi. Following the completion of the merger, Axiata and Telenor now hold equal ownership in Celcom Digi at 33.1% each. Earlier this week, the Malaysian government said that the country’s main mobile operators decided to acquire stakes in the state-owned wholesale 5G operator, Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB). The government confirmed that Malaysia’s 5G Network Implementation Task Force has successfully reached an agreement on equity participation in DNB with local carriers Celcom Digi, Maxis, Telekom Malaysia, U-Mobile and YTL Communications. The government also said that DNB already covered 64.7% of populated areas with 5G as of the end of June. Celcom Digi, Telekom Malaysia, U-Mobile, and YTL Communications had already started offering 5G services after they signed 5G access agreement with DNB last in 2022. DNB was set up by the Malaysian government in 2021 as a special purpose vehicle to develop the country’s 5G network infrastructure, which private telecommunications firms would use to offer 5G services to their customers. In May, the government announced it will enable the deployment of a second 5G network in 2024, adding that a new entity will be created to manage Malaysia’s second 5G network. Malaysia’s Communications and Digital Minister Fahmi Fadzil recently said that DNB will continue to roll out 5G network infrastructure in the country until 80% coverage is achieved by the end of this year. ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats