Feb 20, 2023 OSLO, Norway – Telenor Norway (OTCMKTS: TELNY) has selected Accenture (NYSE: ACN) to help modernise its IT organisation by transitioning to a cloud-based environment. The initiative is an important step in Telenor’s journey to become a software and product driven company and will enable improved customer experiences and revenue growth.
 
By transitioning to a cloud-based environment, Telenor will also gain increased agility, scalability and speed to market for its services offerings. As a result, the company can increase the frequency of new product and service launches.
 
“The key to our success lies in building the culture and cultivating the skills required to become a software-defined and product-driven company that delivers the best and most valuable products and services to our customers,” said Torbjørn Larsen, CIO of Telenor Norway. “I look forward to our collaboration with Accenture to accelerate the ongoing digitalisation at Telenor.”
 
The collaboration also brings together the talent of Accenture and Telenor Norway’s teams to upskill Telenor’s IT organisation with software and data proficiencies.
 
“We are supporting Telenor in their digital transformation while also developing a lasting culture of innovation,” said Torbjørn Eik-Nes, managing director of Accenture in Norway. “This will enable Telenor to stay agile and competitive in the telecommunications industry.”
 
Øystein Langerak, a managing director who leads Accenture Communications, Media and Technology industry group in Norway, added, “Telenor recognised the urgency of transforming from a telco to a techco in order to accelerate their growth and create competitive differentiation.”
 
This digital transformation work builds on more than 25 years of Accenture and Telenor Norway collaborating to implement new technology, operating models and paths to growth. Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Sign up to receive TelecomTV's top news and videos, plus exclusive subscriber-only content direct to your inbox. TelecomTV is produced by the team at Decisive Media. © Decisive Media Limited 2024. All rights reserved. All brands and products are the trademarks of their respective holder(s).