Look back at the highlights from the duchess’s 12-episode first season. Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, is being recognized in a major way for her chart-topping podcast, Archetypes. The Gracie Awards announced that Meghan was named top Entertainment Podcast Host for her work. The Gracies "recognize exemplary programming created by women, for women, and about women in all facets of media and entertainment." Per a release on her nonprofit Archewell's website, the award "honors outstanding original content that both entertains and informs in a highly engaging and authentic manner." Meghan launched her podcast last summer in an effort to correct narratives and uncover the origins of common stereotypes against women. So far, she has released 12 episodes, her most recent one debuting last November. High-profile guests have included Meghan's longtime friend tennis star Serena Williams, pop icon Mariah Carey, heiress and DJ Paris Hilton, and comedian Mindy Kaling. In her first episode, Meghan speaks to Williams about living with pain and recalls a scary moment she had with son Prince Archie. In another, she dissects the "angry Black woman" trope with guests Issa Rae and Ziwe. And later in the season, she chats with activist Jameela Jamil about dealing with violent criticism and fighting for what's right.  For her season finale, she opens up to Trevor Noah, Judd Apatow, and Andy Cohen about some of the ways her husband, Prince Harry, is breaking down stereotypes for their son.  Upon its release, Archetypes reached the number one spot on the charts in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, and New Zealand. It also topped charts in 47 other countries, per Archewell.  Rosa Sanchez is the senior news editor at Harper's Bazaar, working on news as it relates to entertainment, fashion, and culture. Previously, she was a news editor at ABC News and, prior to that, a managing editor of celebrity news at American Media. She has also written features for Rolling Stone, Teen Vogue, Forbes, and The Hollywood Reporter, among other outlets.  Shop Meghan Markle's Colombia Outfits Harry & Meghan's Colombia Trip, in Photos Princess Lilibet Has Found Her Voice  Meghan Markle Speaks Spanish to School Children See Meghan Markle Wearing Princess Diana's Jewelry Royal History of Meghan's Cartier Nail Necklace Meghan Markle Owns Two Versions of This Dress Harry and Meghan Arrive in Colombia Meghan Markle Wears Chic Sleeveless Suit King Charles Sweet Photo for Princess Anne's Bday Royal Visits to Colombia Through the Years Will & Kate Pen Moving Letter to Widow A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.