Compact trucks are becoming a hot commodity in the US. The popularity of Japanese-made Kei trucks and new models from EV startups are indicative of a trend. Here are the tiny trucks that are taking US roads by storm. US roads and highways have historically followed the mantra "Go big or go home." It's part of the reason why Ford's F-series of truck has been the country's top-selling vehicle for the past 40 years. But things may be changing: While Americans still love trucks, those trucks may be getting smaller: Tiny and compact trucks are finding a market in the US, demonstrating that bigger doesn't always mean more popular. The popularity of Kei trucks, a designation given to Japanese-manufactured mini trucks of any brand with tiny engines and diminuitive statures, are emblematic of the trend. Their compact size makes them maneuverable and able to fit into tight spaces, while still having load capacity. "Every single year for the past seven years, we've been increasing our sales overall, and a huge chunk of that is Kei vehicles," Matt Matusiak, the president of importer Japan Car Direct, told Insider. "It's probably our most-searched term, and that's what brings most people to our website." They are also affordable, with the cheapest mini-truck costing as little as $5,000. Still, the small vehicles have a long way to go before they threaten big mainstays: In 2022, for instance, Ford's F-series pickup accounted for the top selling vehicle in 14 states. Meanwhile, the best selling vehicle in every state was either a pickup or crossover SUV — except for Florida, where the Toyota Corolla took the top spot, according to data from Edmunds. As for Kei trucks: They're still manufactured, but versions from the 1990s are particularly popular with US consumers because they can be imported without having to abide by the range of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards due to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's 25-year rule, Matusiak said. That rule exempts imported vehicles from certain federal standards, according to the agency. Todd Gato, one of the owners of HVNY Imports, a New York based importer of Japanese vehicles, said that his company has sold more than 300 Kei trucks to businesses — like delis, contractors, and even Legoland — in the past couple years. Other car makers are getting in on the trend as compact pickup trucks have become more common on the road. Ford introduced its compact option, the Maverick, at the beginning of 2022, and it is currently unavailable due to high demand. And startups like Telo and Canoo are working on new, fully-electric models, like the Telo MT1 and Canoo's pickup truck. Telo is an EV startup that is working on what might be the cutest compact truck ever. It's the size of a Mini Cooper, measuring 12.6 feet long, including a five-foot-long truck bed. The truck is a utility vehicle made for the city and will roll out in 2025. Source: Business Insider By lopping off a traditional hood and front end, Telo's electric truck is able to save space. It will reportedly offer 350 miles of range on a full charge. Preorders are already available for the compact vehicle, with pricing beginning at $49,999 for the base model. Sources: Business Insider, Telo Canoo is another EV startup that is developing a range of sleek, all-purpose vehicles made for transportation and adventuring. Its pickup truck, which is currently available for preorder, is the largest vehicle in the collection, measuring 15.3 feet long. That still makes it 21 inches shorter than the smallest pickups on the market. Sources: Business Insider, Business Insider, Motor Trend While pricing has not yet been released for the pickup, interested parties can preorder the vehicle with a $100 deposit. Right now, Canoo vehicles are used by companies like Walmart for cargo delivery and Zeeba, a company that leases vehicles for various transportation needs. Source: Canoo Next up is the Baojun Yep, a compact electric SUV that hit Chinese markets at the end of May. Its base price of $11,300 is meant to appeal to a younger demographic. Measuring 11 feet long, 5.5 feet wide, and 5.6 feet in height, the Yep is conducive to driving in cities. Source: Insideevs As of now, Ford's Maverick is one of the few compact trucks available in the US. The 2023 edition begins at around $23,000 and measures 16.6 feet, around the length of an SUV like the Honda Pilot. Released in 2022, the Maverick quickly found an audience, selling 74,370 units in its first year of availability — about 11% of Ford's F-series sales from that same year. Sources: Business Insider, The Drive Alké, an Italian EV company, manufactures a variety of utility vehicles. Its cargo van with rolling shutters is made for urban environments. The vehicle is capable of carrying loads as heavy as 3,300 lbs. The standard version measures 11.5 feet in length, 4.5 feet in width, and 6.5 feet in height. These electric cargo vans are marketed to hospitals, resorts, and catering companies, rather than the standard consumer. Source: Alke Kei trucks, like this Honda Acty, embody the functionality of a compact vehicle. But those who want to drive them in the US can face some restrictions. These Japanese mini-trucks that were manufactured prior to 1998 were not subject to crash testing, making it difficult to pass safety inspections in certain states, to be used on public highways. Sources: Business Insider, PA DMV The 1990 Mazda Bongo is one type of Kei truck. The one below was purchased to start a removal business in New York and cost the owner about $4,500 to buy outright. "It's literally like owning a unicorn," its owner told Insider. Source: Business Insider This Kei truck was purchased on Facebook marketplace by Cindy Bryant, who runs a honey business. It's a 1996 Honda Acty and cost Bryant $5,500. At her height of 5 feet 3 inches tall, she says that it's the perfect size to load and unload cargo. Source: Business Insider Read the original article on Business Insider Republicans in the state had tried to ease tensions before Trump’s blow-up at a rally. Republicans hope the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will intervene in an Arizona state election dispute. The answer may not be what you’re expecting. Former President Trump shared a fake photo of Vice President Harris speaking at a communist event in Chicago ahead of the start of the Democratic National Convention. Trump posted the image on Truth Social late Saturday and again on X on Sunday, adding on to accusations he has made about her recently, calling her a… Multiple people were injured during an incident at a western Pennsylvania amusement park ride Saturday night. When the actress and singer Marianne Faithfull appeared opposite the late actor Alain Delon in the 1968 erotic drama The Girl On A Motorcycle, she had the highest praise for him. “We think alike in a lot of ways and he’s a totally dedicated actor,” she said. “He helped me a lot through his ability to ignore outside things when he’s working.” There is a famous contemporary picture of the two of them laughing together, apparently completely wrapped up in one another, while Faithfull’s boyfriend Mi A Delta flight was going to Dublin from Boston when it returned "because of an unruly passenger who urinated on another passenger on board." The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. A Buford man who attempted to rob a then teenager in 2021 will spend the rest of his life in prison. "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married." Just not seeing the point here. Week 2 of the NFL preseason proved to be rather eventful, with several quarterback competitions coming into focus in recent days. Sen. Lindsey Graham told NBC News’ “Meet the Press” on Sunday that former President Donald Trump, “the provocateur, the showman, may not win this election.” Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful In the days and weeks following the Christmas Eve 2002 disappearance of his pregnant wife Laci, Scott Peterson came across as unemotional and detached, and police soon deemed him uncooperative. In his few interactions with the media—including a high-profile sit-down with Diane Sawyer—he was dispassionate and his commentary was implausible, to the point that most pundits and viewers dubbed it a disaster. Scott was so unlikable and unpersuasive that it wasn’t long before much of America hated him. A new study has honed in on two surprising new risk factors for Alzheimer’s disease, culminating in a list of 14 things that could increase the likelihood of the common dementia. Kamala Harris' husband Doug Emhoff explained who he thinks should play him on SNL, and his picks are top notch. Philadelphia 76ers legendary guard Allen Iverson gives his all-time starting lineup in NBA history. Safari guests in India were treated recently to a rarely witnessed interaction between a tiger and cobra, which appeared to culminate in a standoff. Several clips are being shared via social media but the accompanying footage is reported to have been captured in early August… Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said.