The hype around holiday movies is often focused on Christmas-themed films, but the truth is there are just as many entertaining Hanukkah ones to fill you with joy. Whether it's Adam Sandler's hilarious animated film "Eight Crazy Nights," which is centered around Jewish characters, or "Little Fockers," which only includes some aspect of the holiday, there's definitely something for everyone. And if it's the classic Christmas Hallmark-type movies you're looking for, there are plenty of Hanukkah love stories to be watched during the holiday season as well. So if you're ready to get cozy and binge-watch the best of the best Hanukkah movies, scroll this gallery to find out which ones are worth the watch. Leave it to Seth Rogen to spit out some of the best Jewish humor you've ever heard in this film. The movie follows Rogen's Isaac and his longtime pals Ethan (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) and Chris (Anthony Mackie), who have a longstanding tradition of getting together on Christmas Eve. After realizing their decade-long get-together is ending, the friends get into some hilarious mischief. This animated film isn't for all ages as it has some major PG-13 moments of raunchy humor, but for those old enough to handle it, you'll undoubtedly get a laugh out of it. The movie is about Davey (Sandler), an adult with wild ways who finds himself in legal trouble only to be given a second chance by a judge who orders him to do holiday community service. Davey gives it his best shot as he volunteers as an assistant youth basketball referee only to clash with the head referee. Arguably one of the most popular holiday movies to date, "The Holiday" sees Hanukkah play a major part in the story as Kate Winslet's character hosts a Hanukkah party for an elderly neighbor, which gets the seal of approval from her love interest, played by Jack Black. The third film in the Meet the Parents series, this movie takes place around the holidays, which means it's a Chrismukkah celebration. The movie sees the return of the Fockers, played by Ben Stiller and Robert De Niro, but it also features Barbra Streisand, so enough said. Sandler once again hit it out of the park with this film in which he plays both Jack and his twin sister, Jill. The film follows their relationship, which sees Jack and Jill start their Thanksgiving holiday off on the wrong foot. When Jack feels bad for being annoyed with his sister, he invites her to stay through Hanukkah. This 1996 classic animation is a perfect family-friendly way to learn about the history of Hanukkah in a way even young kids will understand. Starring Joey Lawrence and Emily Hampshire, this Hallmark Channel love story is about two people who pretend to be each other's significant others during the holidays to keep their family drama at peace. This movie will have you smiling the whole way through. Hallmark Channel did it again with this film, which follows the story of a Hanukkah-celebrating woman named Rebecca and her coworker who celebrates Christmas. They are tasked with throwing their office holiday party, and despite their initial disdain for each other, the two begin to slowly fall for one another. After finding out she's Jewish via a DNA test, Christina finds herself not only meeting a new family but also finding an unlikely romance — all over the course of eight nights. Sara begins to learn that she may be finding love with someone she never expected after she receives gifts for each night of Hanukkah from a secret admirer. After Brooke is dumped right before Christmas, she decides to enlist the help of an actor to play her boyfriend for the upcoming holiday celebrations. But after her family find out he's Jewish, they do their best to incorporate his Hanukkah traditions into their plans, just to find out the two are up to something.