UNESCO Pan-African Forum for the Culture of Peace Public access to information is a key component of UNESCO's commitment to transparency and its accountability. Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 2005 Convention ultimately provides a new framework for informed, transparent and  UNESCO’s e-Platform on intercultural dialogue is designed for organizations and individuals to learn from shared knowledge or experiences from infl Established in 2002, the GEM Report is an editorially independent report, hosted and published by UNESCO. To recovery and beyond: The report takes stock of the global progress on the adoption and implementation of legal guarantees on Access to Info Addressing culture as a global public good For almost 75 years, the UNESCO Courier has served as a platform for international debates on issues that concern the entire pla Lifelong learning is key to overcoming global challenges and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Main UNESCO website UNESCO Digital Library website. The Value of water Groundwater, making the invisible visible UNESCO Greater global awareness of mathematical sciences are vital to addressing challenges in areas such as artificial intelligence, climate change, energy and sustainable development, and to improving the quality of life in both the developed and the developing worlds. UNESCO’s 40th General Conference proclaimed 14 March of every year International Day of Mathematics in November 2019 (40C/ Resolution 30). In many countries, 14 March (3/14) is already celebrated as Pi Day because π, one of the world’s most widely-known mathematical constants can be rounded to 3.14.  This webinar on industrial mathematics marked the International Day of Mathematics (14 march 2023). Speakers shared their knowledge and expertise in areas such as sustainable industrial systems, modern manufacturing, and predictive maintenance. This webinar aims to promote the knowledge and applications of industrial mathematics. comes from their brilliant mathematical algorithms. for secure communications relies on number theory. like computed tomography scan (CT-scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measure numerical data and a mathematical algorithm builds an image out of them. are now transforming the world: for instance, computer vision, automatic translation, autonomous vehicles, etc. is a triumph of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. Mathematics were used to create the first photo of a black hole. are optimized with mathematics. can be better understood and controlled with the help of mathematics. are accomplished with statistics and optimization. that better represent the people's will are designed with the help of mathematics. (floods, earthquakes, hurricanes) are better understood and hence prepared for in advance, with the help of mathematics, thus reducing disaster risk. As Nelson Mandela said in June 1990, “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world”. Mathematics are an essential part of education, which empowers people and opens new job opportunities. and their consequences on biodiversity. are needed in the move to a sustainable use of the world resources. to extract data from satellite images and draw maps of urban, industrial, agricultural and forest areas, where traditional data are missing. girls and women to a better future. help every citizen to better understand the planetary challenges. perspective symmetries, tilings, fractals, geometric curves, surfaces and shapes; patterns, scales and sounds in music. from backgammon or chess to solving a Rubik's cube or playing Awale. from navigations with the stars to GPS. Without mathematics this would never be possible. the builder, the farmer, the shopkeeper, the craftsperson, the athlete, etc., "On this International Day of Mathematics, we are celebrating a universal history which began in Palaeolithic Africa more than 20,000 years ago." aims to showcase the fundamental role played by the mathematical sciences in the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and in reinforcing the two UNESCO priorities: Africa and Gender Equality. The Day invites us to celebrate the joy to be found in mathematics as well as the plethora of vocations it offers to girls and boys, through festive and diverse activities taking place around the world. "Modelling can indeed be particularly powerful – the fight against the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has shown this – provided that it is used, that its pitfalls and potential are understood, and that entire fields of public action are not allowed to escape democratic discussion." UNESCO facilitates access to mathematics education and research in developing countries through its educational programmes, but also through its regional centres dedicated to mathematics in Hanoi (Viet Nam) and Accra (Ghana), its chairs in Benin, Nigeria and Palestine, and the programmes of the International Centre for Pure and Applied Mathematics (Nice, France) in Asia, Africa and the Americas. "As humanity faces immense challenges, it is crucial that the power of mathematics be both better understood and more balanced." UNESCO is releasing the French edition of its Mathematics for Action toolkit on 14 March 2023 to mark International Mathematics Day. Written by mathematicians and thought leaders from across the globe, it presents riveting research on the many ways in which mathematics is addressing the  world’s most pressing challenges. Mathematics for Action also deciphers the role of mathematics in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals to 2030 that were adopted by the global community in 2015. For instance, the thirteenth Sustainable Development Goal concerns climate action. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change relies on a combination of climate models and storylines to produce scenarios of plausible alternative futures. It is these mathematical models which enable the exploration of multiple “what-if” scenarios to inform the decision-making process. Mathematics are part of the cultural heritage of humanity: they as essential to our technologies as it is a tool for development. The many activities taking place around the world in celebration of the Day are testament to the enthusiastic reception it has received.
The International Day of Mathematics is led by UNESCO's International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP) and the International Mathematical Union, with the support of numerous international and regional organizations. 2021