 Business process outsourcing firm Telus International is calling on fellow employers to upgrade their benefits and rewards packages for their employees to attract younger workers—Gen Z and millennials—who put a premium on work-life balance.  "In these changing times, we should be deliberate about giving team members the support they need and allowing them to have a rewarding journey," said Anne Muñoz, vice president and country manager at Telus International Philippines.  Muñoz made the statement after a survey by Deloitte, a multinational tax, audit, and financial consulting firm, found that the top priorities for Gen Z and millennial respondents in choosing an employer were a good work-life balance and opportunities for learning and development.  "Now more than ever, companies need to focus on tailoring their rewards and benefits to their employees’ needs to help them realize their aspirations, ultimately making work more meaningful," she added.   Muñoz said Telus International is also creating highly engaging themed meeting rooms and game rooms "that inspire creativity, allowing our team members to do their best work while enjoying the things they love doing."  "We also have various Special Interest Groups where they can bond over different interests," she said.  "We also have amenities to help promote wellness, including in-house gyms, game rooms, and snooze boxes. Our company consistently urges us to take short breaks and to utilize our paid leaves. For our team members' convenience and safety, we also provide free, daily shuttle services to and from work," she added.  The survey by Deloitte also found that cost of living was the top concern among Gen Z and millennials, as respondents said they would feel less anxious about their financial situation if their employer offered financial wellness benefits.  Muñoz said Telus International has set up a retirement benefits fund and savings program for its workers "that enables our team members to allot a certain amount from their salary to be placed in an account that earns interest."  "Having meaningful rewards is one part of the equation to engage Gen Z and millennial team members. These must also come with a work culture that emphasizes purpose and allows each team member to see the value of their contributions toward the overall goal of the organization," she said. —VBL, GMA Integrated News