Sunny Pokala, CEO, Amtex Systems. Follow me at LinkedIn.   Enterprise security has grown immensely complicated because of the development of IoT devices in companies, the move of services and applications to the cloud and interfaces with numerous external parties. As a result of the increased surface area for cyberattacks, hackers can now take advantage of more and more network vulnerabilities. Due to this, it is necessary to develop proactive measures that can foresee attacks and stop them in their tracks. Cyberattack attempts increased by 38% in 2022. Even one successful strike has the potential to have catastrophic consequences. Average data breach costs are $2.98 million, even for mid-sized businesses. This amount escalates to over $5 million for larger firms. AI is rapidly evolving into the cure-all for all things digital. And it is now understood that incorporating it into cybersecurity is the greatest method to put preventive defenses against threat actors into place. But it's crucial to remember that attackers can also use the wide range of AI's capabilities to boost the ante. In this article, I'll discuss how AI's potential can take the cybersecurity protocols of an enterprise to the next level. AI cybersecurity systems have numerous advantages for an enterprise. AI can effectively streamline our approach to business security by providing intelligent pro techniques to predict cyber threats and conducting standard business security processes. Here are some compelling advantages of cybersecurity that include AI. • Initiating an asset inventory: A complete inventory of all your network resources—including devices, servers and users—can be smartly utilized with the use of AI capabilities. It can also assist business decision makers in classifying enterprise assets according to how essential those assets can be for their company's operations. • Extended scope for threat intelligence: Artificial intelligence can recognize and examine dangerous code fragments, draw lessons from them and store this knowledge for use in identifying future threats. The most recent advancement in the cybersecurity world is AI support in creating danger projections. Additionally, by using historical data to train AI, it is possible to create anticipatory intelligence for creating strong protocols for the enterprise. • Improved event response: For security issues, AI capabilities can aid in providing a thorough context of any incident that occurs. It's not uncommon for seemingly unrelated occurrences to occur in your network. If these isolated occurrences are connected in a way that suggests a significant security incident, AI can identify it. As a result, replies are expedited, and threat mitigation is improved. This helps to enhance how security warnings are prioritized. • Automation of security tasks: In cybersecurity, human effort should go into novel activities like creating network defenses with a strategic focus. AI solutions, on the other hand, are capable of handling and responding to more commonplace activities like managing security incidents. The incident response time can be sped up by automating root cause analysis of security issues utilizing a cybersecurity solution powered by AI. • Breach risk prediction: AI can forecast the likelihood that your firm will experience a security breach by considering your IT assets, the security procedures in place and the data that is exposed to outside parties. AI tools can also uncover network vulnerabilities that require additional attention, which can help you plan your security approach appropriately. • Vulnerability scanning and management: Businesses can remain one step ahead of attackers by checking their software and systems for bugs and weaknesses. AI offers the right directions and steps to be followed in spotting a threat that can help enhance cybersecurity. Here are some tips on how to get started with implementing AI into your cybersecurity plans. • Start with specific use cases: Start with well-defined use cases that may show the contribution that AI can make to your cybersecurity plan. • Choose the right AI techniques: For your unique use cases, choose the right AI techniques that are best suited to utilizing machine learning (ML), deep learning (DL), natural language processing (NLP), anomaly detection or other AI-based methods. • Draw proof of concepts: Start small, analyze the results and draw lessons from the implementation procedure to improve your cybersecurity strategy—then use the input from these initiatives. • Collaborate with AI experts: For better direction, resources and probability of successfully integrating AI, choose reputable AI consultants or researchers with a focus on cybersecurity. • Monitor and adapt: Keep a close eye on how your AI systems are performing, assess their efficacy and make the necessary adjustments to your cybersecurity strategies. The adoption of artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques is growing among cyber criminals. They are modifying their malware code to evade detection, causing security software to overlook the threat. In order to enhance their attacks, malware creators are increasingly utilizing AI and ML methods. Consequently, defenders need to anticipate the emergence of unorthodox malware with advanced and evolving characteristics. The ability of AI to automate intricate tasks poses a challenge for defensive strategies that rely on anti-malware AI techniques. Advanced threat identification and prevention are now more accessible than ever, thanks to advancements in AI. While setting up resources for more proactive activities and problems that need human evaluation, AI-backed software and strategies can greatly increase organizational security. Cybersecurity with artificial intelligence is shifting the game. The vast amount of data that artificial intelligence technologies can learn from, their ability to adapt to new attack methods and their constant performance improvement distinguish them from traditional cybersecurity methods that rely on fixed rules and signatures to detect threats. There is no doubt that business experts can greatly benefit from artificial intelligence to protect their enterprises from any threat. To fully understand the influence of AI on cybersecurity, it is crucial to grasp the basic principles of artificial intelligence. AI involves creating computer systems that can learn, solve problems and make decisions. Due to its dynamic nature, AI is well-suited to tackling the arduous challenges presented by the constantly changing cyber threat landscape. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 