Before we look forward to what  cyber risks stand looming at the gates for 2023, it is appropriate that we take  a moment to look back at the most critical cybersecurity events of the past  year. To say 2022 was an eventful year for cybersecurity professionals would be  quite an understatement.   As Andy Thompson says in a blog for Cyberark, the  chaos surrounding 2022,  included the  familiar drip, drip, drip of unfilled cybersecurity jobs, depleted IT security  staffs that struggled to deal with an expanding remote workforce, the  escalating cloud and IoT universe and increased consequences of insecure  digital acceleration, including greater risk exposure to ransomware threats and  vulnerabilities across the software supply chain. Thompson’s assessments of  2022’s biggest challenges include identity compromise which was a familiar theme  across major 2022 breaches, including a high-profile incident involving a leading identity provider, to  the rise in deceptive “MFA fatigue” phishing. Confronting the  identity-centric challenges was of prime concern for government leaders and  business executives that helped turn Zero Trust imperatives into motivating  action items.  “Governments enacted  stronger cybersecurity regulations to harden networks and protect access  to sensitive data and critical infrastructure. Private sectors increased supply chain scrutiny to  identify areas of weakness, such as embedded credentials and unmanaged secrets.  Under extreme pressure, cyber insurance providers continued to ramp up requirements, making it even harder for  organizations to purchase or renew policies. And several landmark legal cases  placed breach responsibility and disclosure obligations on individuals,  suggesting major changes ahead,” he adds. There is little doubt that the  sophistication level of cyber criminals and their attack vectors has increased.  Cybercrime has become a business and the assailants are more advanced in both their  targets and methods. Dirk Schrader, VP of Security Research, and Michael Paye,  VP of Research and Development, at data security company Netwrix in  Frisco, Texas, both agree that the business of cybercrime will be further  professionalized in 2023. “The return of malware strains  like Emotet, Conti and Trickbot indicates an expansion of cybercrime for hire.  In particular, the growth of ransomware-as-a-service is enabling criminals  without deep technical skills to make money, either by extorting a ransom for  decryption keys or selling stolen data on the dark web or to a victim’s  competitors. Accordingly, organizations should expect an increase in phishing  campaigns. Vital defense strategies include timely patching and updating of  software, as well as locking down network access with multifactor  authentication (MFA) and privileged access management (PAM) solutions,” says  Schrader. Paye foresees an  intensification in supply chain attacks ranging from the more complex enterprise  organizations down to the small and medium businesses and managed service  providers. “Adversaries will increasingly target these suppliers rather than  the larger enterprises knowing that they provide a path into multiple partners  and customers. To address this threat, organizations of all sizes while  conducting a risk assessment need to consider the vulnerabilities of all  third-party software or firmware. “ However, the threat vectors  continue to multiply as the mobile workforce expands and networks are stretched  to home offices and understaffed corporate facilities. Nadir Izrael, the CTO  and Co-founder of Armis, an  asset visibility and security company, sees the future of cybersecurity as being  an agentless entity as employees continue to work from home and on their  personal devices. “By now, most are aware of  threats like email phishing, but hackers have been using machine learning, even more, to steal logins and access private databases. This will accelerate in  2023. And in the office, workers are encountering a new landscape of  post-pandemic IoT devices: hands-free, voice-enabled conference rooms powered  by systems like Amazon Alexa For Business,” says Izrael. “The problem is these  devices can’t be secured by legacy solutions – they’re inherently vulnerable.  Cybercriminals go after the low-hanging fruit, so the easy targets give them  the route to go deeper into a private network.” He adds that in most offices,  the devices themselves won’t matter as much as how they interact with the  broader environment. The benefit of an agentless future means that  organizations can share devices and not bear the CAPEX burden. “The benefit of an agentless  future means that organizations can share devices and not bear the CAPEX  burden. In fact, increasingly the “devices” will not be owned at all by the  organizations they serve. This will be an extension of much of the already  adopted Cloud paradigm: you can get rid of logic that runs on-site and  everything runs in a “cloud” – even if it’s a cloud of devices in the office.  Ultimately: devices won’t matter. Their access matters.” To that end, security experts  like Chip Gibbons, the CISO at  Thrive, a provider of NextGen Managed Services, figure that  end-users are going to rank among the top cybersecurity threats in 2023  because of their multiple points of vulnerability. “Business Email Compromise  (BEC) will continue to be a top attack method from cyber attackers and the  easiest way into an organization. With the increase in zero-day attacks, people  are going to be looking at reducing their externally available footprint.  Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) will be ubiquitous, and nothing should be  externally available without it,” explains Gibbons. “Most companies have  embraced some form of work-from-home policy and there was a large scramble to  get people secure and situated at the beginning of the pandemic. Companies  should continue to evaluate their end-user workstation security and work on  securing with DNS filtering, EDR, and email filtering.” Ransomware and cyber extortion  will remain among the top cyber threats in 2023. As cybercriminals’ tactics  continue to evolve, they will increasingly favor exfiltrating data over  encrypting it for cyber extortion. Governments will continue to strongly advise  organizations not to pay ransoms and may even introduce legislation relating to  this. That is what Cyril Noel-Tagoe, a Principal Security Researcher at Netacea, is forecasting,  citing the fact that double extortion ransomware (where a copy of the data is  exfiltrated before it is encrypted) has surpassed traditional ransomware as  cybercriminals’ extortion tactic of choice.  “The threat of the exfiltrated  data being leaked provides cyber criminals with a secondary lever with which to  apply pressure on victims to pay up. However, as organizations adopt stronger  backup and resilience measures, the primary impact is now being caused by data exfiltration, rather than data encryption. This may lead to some  cybercriminals forgoing encryption entirely and refocusing of exfiltration  efforts. There have already been notable cases of ransomware which either  skipped or faked  data encryption,” says Noel-Tagoe. “Cybercriminals will utilize  AI and machine learning in 2023 to power more sophisticated phishing campaigns.  Cybercriminals will have access to an ever-growing treasure trove of data, from  open-source data such as job postings to personal information leaked in data  breaches, with which to craft highly targeted spear phishing lures,” continues  Noel-Tagoe. “Researchers  have already shown how next-generation language models such as OpenAI’s GPT-3  can be used to generate phishing content that “outperformed those that were  manually created”. With GPT-4, the next evolution of the language  model, rumored for release in 2023, the threat of AI-powered phishing becomes  more severe.” Another area of potential  vulnerability is also a residual of a rapidly changing landscape of computer  and network complexity. Quantum computing is a rapidly emerging technology that  harnesses the laws of quantum mechanics to solve problems too complex for  classical computers. As adoption increases, so do the security challenges  admonishes Chief Information Security Officer of (ISC)² Jon France.  He insists that making  infrastructures quantum-resilient is going to be more difficult than imagined,  both for the public and private sectors. One major area of concern when it  comes to quantum is national security.  “Governments have secrecy  policies that last for decades…those policies are going to be threatened by  quantum computing as the technology evolves, with much of the information under  these policies being transmitted (and potentially captured in encrypted form)  with algorithms that may not be quantum safe. Within the next 5-10 years,  quantum technology will likely become commercially available, making it a very  real threat to past and outdated encryption algorithms - many of which are used  to conceal the nation's top secrets. Quantum computing is going to be able to  overcome complex roadblocks at speeds that will render multiple forms of  current encryption useless,” France says. For the private sector, trade  secrets, intellectual property, financial data and more are at the same risk if  a bad actor gets their hands on quantum computing capabilities and breaks the  encryption keeping critical assets under lock and key. Building cyber  resilience in preparation for quantum technology should have been an effort  started a decade ago…but now is the second-best time.”  He predicts that In 2023, both  the private and public sectors will experience increased awareness around the  challenges associated with quantum resilience, and efforts will begin to take  hold more significantly to prepare for quantum computing.  “Much of the encryption  infrastructure in communication networks that keeps information safe now is  deeply embedded, i.e., certificates, and will take years to transition to  quantum resilient algorithms, posing a timeline issue for changeover before the  general availability of quantum computing,” he adds. A lesser-known cyber threat is  seen by France as having additional lethal implications in the new year. While  most organizations are not as familiar with wiperware  attacks as its cousin ransomware, it has been a latent problem for almost a  decade, with a dramatic increase in the number of attacks in 2022. “The motivation behind  wiperware is almost always to sabotage victims, especially during times of war,  as we see with Russia and Ukraine. Seven different types of wiperware have been  used to attack Ukrainian organizations in attempts to weaken their abilities to  conquer Russia. We can anticipate a rise in nation-state-motivated wiperware  attacks in 2023 as the Russia/Ukraine conflict continues, and we can expect to  see other nations utilize these attacks in future conflicts now that they've  become more prevalent on the global scene. Additionally, with the rise in wiperware,  there's likely to be a rise in phishing attacks, given that it's the most  common vector for distributing ransomware and wiperware,” presumes France. Despite the attack morphing  variations, Ransomware remains a constant threat and it has become a more  complex adversary, according to Jon Check, the Executive Director of Cyber  Protection Solutions at Raytheon  Intelligence & Space. He stresses that any penalties for such attacks  will have little to no effect as the next attacker will only become smarter and  harder to catch, especially now that these attacks have become commoditized,  and attackers are able to put money into researching and developing more  sophisticated threats. “We must combat this by  bringing our best diverse thinking to the table while welcoming and inviting  unique and diversified talent not always thought to be connected to the  cybersecurity industry. The best ideas and most impactful solutions will come  from taking a new path shown to us by an unexpected guide,” advises Check. And let’s not forget the  potential for increased incursions to your cloud infrastructure, the experts  advise. Illumio CPO Mario Espinoza  says with economic uncertainty looming, companies are looking to the cloud as  an efficient way to tighten costs. “However, as cloud adoption  continues to accelerate, we’ll see more organizations leverage a lift-and-shift  approach – moving an application and its associated data to a cloud platform  without redesigning the app – tremendously increasing the attack surface in the  cloud. Because of this, in 2023, we could witness an uptick in attacks  targeting cloud infrastructure,” he says.  The adoption of Zero Trust  Security models is becoming a driving force in a comprehensive cybersecurity  framework for most large-scale organizations. But as Torsten Staab,  a Ph.D., Principal Engineering Fellow at Raytheon Intelligence & Space reminds  us, Zero Trust is a tool, not a product. “Adopting Zero Trust Security  across an enterprise requires careful planning and the use of complementary,  multi-vendor solutions. For many organizations, adopting Zero Trust Security  will be a multi-year journey. Establishing a solid ZT strategy up front and  developing a phased, step-by-step implementation plan to avoid boiling the  ocean and losing focus will be key to a successful Zero Trust Security  implementation,” admits Staab. “Moving into 2023, look for additional ZT  implementation guidance and recommendations from NIST and the U.S. Department  of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency  (CISA).” Staab continues that as we  head toward the Quantum Computing Era, adopting a Zero Trust architecture will  become more important than ever. Zero Trust principles such as “never trust,  always verify” and “assume breach,” coupled the PQC-inspired concepts such as  Crypto Agility (i.e., the ability to seamlessly switch between classical and  PQC algorithms and quickly replace compromised crypto algorithms if needed)  will apply to any organization and be key for providing future-proof,  next-generation cyber security. Anusha Iyer, the President/CTO  and Co-founder of API security company, Corsha agrees that Zero  Trust as a framework makes a lot of sense for organizations leaning into hybrid  deployments, scale, and automation. She states that is often the case with  emerging cybersecurity trends, the government has been an early adopter and  thought leader in Zero Trust with guidance like NIST 800-600 and CISA’s ZT  Maturity Model. Next year, ZT adoption will naturally permeate further into  commercial enterprises. “There’s a phrase I hear a lot  lately that I love, ‘Shift Left Shield Right.’ This to me gets the heart of  getting Application Security strategies right. For 2023, I predict/hope AppSec  will turn into a willing and empathetic collaboration between security teams  and development teams to take a multi-dimensional approach to secure  application ecosystems across today’s complex hybrid environments through  cloud, on-premise systems, browser, mobile, and more,” Iyer says. As with any challenge, there  has to be leadership to confront it. As threats rise and cybercriminals develop  slicker evasive tactics, it is the CISO, CIO and CSO that must provide the  roadmap for creating a proactive approach to mitigating risk. Illumino CEO Andrew Rubin  encourages C-suite executives to arm themselves now and initiatives that work. “Security is a challenging and  at times thankless task. The Uber  breach verdict re-instigated a national conversation about the  responsibility cyber leaders wield and how companies should be held accountable  in the age of imminent digital risk. 2023 will be a challenging year for CISOs  around the world, who have more work, more pressure, and less help,” predicts  Rubin. “It will be critical for CEOs to not only ensure their cyber teams are  supported but to also get on board with an “assume breach” mindset. Having the  right tools and strategies in place to contain inevitable attacks will be  critical for protecting not only an organization’s assets but also its people  in the age of ransomware.”   Manish Mehta, the  Chief Product Officer for Ontic  contends that in 2023, cyber-physical convergence will be a focus for security  teams. He insists that as the threat landscape becomes more complex and increasingly  interconnected, organizations need to build a bridge between their physical and  cybersecurity intelligence to better understand, navigate and address potential  threats. “Accomplished through frequent  inter-team meetings and technology, collaboration among these two sectors is  going to be key for mitigating risk to an organization and its employees,”  Mehta suggests. According to a recent report  from McKinsey & Company, cyberattacks are proliferating, causing  trillions of dollars of damage every year. The cybersecurity industry has a  chance to step up and seize the opportunity. The report revealed that in 2021,  organizations around the world spent around $150 billion on cybersecurity,  indicating more than 12 percent annual growth, while revenue in the  cybersecurity market was also expected to surpass $156 billion this year. Alberto  Yépez, the Co-Founder & Managing Director for Forgepoint Capital, believes this trend  will continue in 2023 as the threat landscape grows increasingly more active  and complex. “More specifically, as ransomware  continues to skyrocket, organizations will seek support modernizing their  defenses, revamping threat detection, and response capabilities with the  understanding that attacks are now inevitable. In order to proactively prepare,  companies will consider new functions like breach simulations, refined training  programs, cyber insurance and more,” says Yépez  He states that beyond attacks  themselves, the cybersecurity market will be further fueled by regulatory  compliance standards, cloud migration and global digital transformation across  business and government, especially as the hybrid workforce model evolves from  a pandemic response to a regular way of doing business.  “All of these components help  organizations meet business needs, but also simultaneously complicate their  cybersecurity posture and create the need for design-to-scale approaches. As a  result, cybersecurity will continue to cement itself as a key enabler across  business functions and organizations will prioritize proactive investment in  2023,” concludes Yépez  About the author: Steve  Lasky is a 34-year veteran of the security industry and an award-winning  journalist. He is the editorial director of the Endeavor Business  Media Security Group, which includes magazines Security  Technology Executive, Security  Business and Locksmith Ledger International and the top-rated  webportal SecurityInfoWatch.com. Steve  can be reached at [email protected] Steve Lasky is a 34-year veteran of the security industry and an award-winning journalist. He is the editorial director of the Endeavor Business Media Security Group, which includes the magazine's Security Technology Executive, Security Business, and Locksmith Ledger International, and the top-rated website SecurityInfoWatch.com. He is also the host of the SecurityDNA podcast series.Steve can be reached at [email protected]