 Framingham Source A self-publishing community bulletin board. A self-publishing community bulletin board. In full transparency, the following is a press release submitted to SOURCE media. *** [broadstreet zone=”53820″] WORCESTER – Michele Sinopoli, MD, has been appointed the new Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for both Saint Vincent Hospital and MetroWest Medical Center, Tenet Healthcare’s Massachusetts Market. She starts her new position in early April. In this role, her responsibilities include collaborating with hospital physician leaders and medical staff to develop and implement comprehensive clinical quality and patient safety initiatives. Dr. Sinopoli has been the Chief of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Saint Vincent Hospital since February of 2019. “We are excited to work with Dr. Sinopoli in her new Chief Medical Officer role,” said Carolyn Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, Saint Vincent Hospital and Massachusetts Market for Tenet Healthcare. “As Chief of OB/GYN at Saint Vincent Hospital, she has proven herself to be a highly effective clinical leader who is well respected by the medical staff and the broader hospital community. She is committed to providing high-quality, safe care to the communities we serve.” [broadstreet zone=”99032″] “I am honored to be given this opportunity to represent our talented and dedicated medical staff and to work closely with them to develop and implement initiatives designed to maintain the highest standards of clinical care and patient safety at our facilities,” Dr. Sinopoli said. “As a practicing physician for nearly 20 years, I am passionate about ensuring that every patient receives the highest quality and compassionate care they expect and deserve.” Dr. Sinopoli earned her medical degree from Boston University School of Medicine and completed her residency in obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. She earned her Bachelor of Science in biomedical engineering from Boston University, where she graduated summa cum laude. Most recently, Dr. Sinopoli earned her Master of Business Administration from Worcester Polytechnic Institute. [broadstreet zone=”59948″] In June 2019, during Dr. Sinopoli’s tenure as Chief of OB/GYN, Saint Vincent Hospital was the first hospital in Central Massachusetts to receive international recognition as a designated birth facility by Baby-Friendly USA. The Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative is a global program sponsored by the World Health Organization and the United Nations Children’s Fund that is designed to ensure high-quality mother/baby care.  Under her leadership, the department of OB/GYN at Saint Vincent Hospital participates in state-wide obstetric quality initiatives through the Perinatal Neonatal Quality Improvement Network (PNQIN) of Massachusetts.  Under Dr. Sinopoli’s leadership, in July 2019, Saint Vincent Hospital’s special care nursery attained the designation of “Level IIB Maternal and Newborn Service,” enabling Saint Vincent Hospital to care for newborns as early as 32 weeks gestational age.   Photo submitted to SOURCE [broadstreet zone=”66385″]  Susan Petroni is the former editor for SOURCE.
She is the founder of the former news site, which as of May 1, 2023, is now a self-publishing community bulletin board.
The website no longer has a journalist but a webmaster.    Framingham Source A self-publishing community bulletin board. 
                      Copyright © All rights reserved                       | 
Blogus by Themeansar.                       
