
                                            Analysis                         |  By Amanda Schiavo  |  
                                March 14, 2023 VITAS Healthcare—a Miami-based end-of-life healthcare provider with over $700 million in total revenue—has appointed a new chief financial officer to oversee the company’s finance, accounting, and investor relations functions.Alexander Fernandez assumed the position of CFO for VITAS Health in March of this year, according to LinkedIn. He joins the organization with over 20 years of financial, administrative, and leadership experience in the healthcare industry."I'm very excited for Alex to join our team and help lead the ongoing transformation of our company to fulfill our mission of providing high-quality care to more members of the communities we serve across the country each and every day," VITAS President and CEO Nick Westfall said in a release announcing Fernandez’s appointment. "He earned his well-known reputation in the South Florida healthcare community based upon his proven track record of success within each role throughout his career. I look forward to working alongside him as we take VITAS to new heights over the coming years."  Alexander Fernandez assumed the position of CFO for VITAS Health in March of this year, according to LinkedIn. He joins the organization with over 20 years of financial, administrative, and leadership experience in the healthcare industry. "I'm very excited for Alex to join our team and help lead the ongoing transformation of our company to fulfill our mission of providing high-quality care to more members of the communities we serve across the country each and every day," VITAS President and CEO Nick Westfall said in a release announcing Fernandez’s appointment. "He earned his well-known reputation in the South Florida healthcare community based upon his proven track record of success within each role throughout his career. I look forward to working alongside him as we take VITAS to new heights over the coming years." Fernandez previously served in several executive finance roles in the nine years he was with Broward Health. Most recently he served as CFO for Broward Health Medical Center and Salah Foundation Children's Hospital. His prior executive roles include chief roles with Tenet Healthcare at Good Samaritan Medical Center and North Shore Medical Center.  "I am thrilled to be joining VITAS at such a pivotal point in the organization's history," Fernandez said in the release. "I look forward to partnering with this team and all its employees, immersing myself in the culture and executing on strategies that ultimately contribute to ensuring VITAS as the premier provider of end-of-life care." 
Amanda Schiavo is the Finance Editor for HealthLeaders.
 Amanda Schiavo is the Finance Editor for HealthLeaders. Physicians are in short supply. They are costly. Is the APP the answer to the CMO's workforce and budget challenges?... Hospital leaders are increasingly turning to automation to streamline revenue cycle operations, but should some processes be left behind?... 

Get the latest on healthcare leadership in your inbox.

Subscribe


 