Everything you need to know about Vulpix’s Spotlight Hour. This week’s Spotlight Hour is all about the Fox Pokémon, making it the perfect opportunity to catch a perfect Vulpix in Pokémon Go. Vulpix’s evolution, Ninetales (also known as the Fox Pokémon), has always been a decent choice in Pokémon Go. Even putting aside the fact that the fox is cute as heck, its prowess in Go Battle League means that this is a Spotlight Hour worth showing up for. But if you’re not a fan of competitive play - or even Vulpix, for that matter - Niantic has you covered because this Spotlight Hour is also about Poliwag, Snorunt and Hippopotas! Presumably this has something to do with Weather Week, but if that’s the case why isn’t the Weather Pokémon in the Spotlight? An hour of purely random Castform would have been pretty cool. Finally, the special bonus that runs alongside the event is the double Catch XP bonus, meaning that you can rake in XP by cracking a Lucky Egg and going to town catching any Pokémon you come across. On this page: This week’s Spotlight Hour is a great opportunity to catch a Vulpix with perfect IV stats. 'Perfect' means two things in Pokémon Go, depending on how you plan to use a given Pokémon. First, there’s the maxed out, 100% IV version, which is the 15/15/15 you’re looking for your 4* Pokédex, raids and Master League. Yet, because of how CP is calculated using three stats, a perfect IV Pokémon is generally only ever the best version of itself in the Master League. Of course, you can’t see the IV of a Pokémon without catching it first, but, with a little research beforehand, you can quickly spot a perfect Vulpix based on the CP alone. If you’re at Level 30 (or above), you’ll ideally be looking for the following CPs for a perfect 15/15/15 Vulpix: The wild CP value aligns with your Trainer Level until you reach Level 30 and, due to the majority of the player base now being above this level, we’ve kept to these values for the sake of simplicity. These values will, however, be different if you’re currently below Level 30. The original fox friend, Kantonian Ninetales, isn’t bad in PVP, boasting top positions positions for its typing in Great and Ultra League. However, its more chill cousin, Alolan Ninetales, that really sparkles in the same two leagues. You'll want Shadow Alolan Ninetales and regular Kantonian Ninetales in Great League and Ultra League. If you’re running Kantonian Ninetales, you’re after Fire Spin (Fast), Weather Ball (Fire, Charged) and Overheat (Charged). Meanwhile, Alolan Ninetales runs Powder Snow (Fast), Weather Ball (Ice, Charged) and Dazzling Gleam (Charged). Here, though, we’re only going to focus on the fire fox, the star of today’s Spotlight Hour. In Great League, Ninetales beats Registeel, Skarmory, Charjabug, Annihilape and Cresselia. Losses will come from Whiscash, Lanturn, Azumarill, Talonflame and Lickitung. In Ultra League, Ninetales takes down Virizion, Steelix, Registeel, Cresselia and Cobalion. Prepare to get your hopes doused by Poliwrath, Jellicent, Swampert, Giratina Altered and Talonflame. Finally, we have Master League. Don’t bother trying Ninetales here if you want to win. 


The Shared Skies Season is here! The Pokémon World Championships 2024 event is currently running in Pokémon Go!

Go Fest 2024 may have been and gone, but you can still play around with the Fusion mechanic. Meanwhile, ticket holders can finish Go Fest 2024: A Shadowy Caper and The Dusk Settles.

Don't forget to try out Routes, Gift Exchange and Party Play while you're hunting down rare Pokémon, fighting in the Go Battle League or competing in PokéStop Showcases.


 Yes, as with all Kantonian Pokémon, there is shiny Vulpix in Pokémon Go! The shiny was released in October 2020, as part of the 'The Seasons Change' event. However, since Spotlight Hours do not have a boosted shiny rate, the chances of finding a shiny are the same as it would be finding it in the wild. You simply have more chances of finding one because of the number that spawn. Shiny Vulpix and Ninetales are both pretty cool shinies, following a gold and silver theme. Gold goes to shiny Vulpix, which trades in its orange fur for a yellowy hue, and its quiff and tails for a caramel colour. It’s pretty cool, but the silver fox, shiny Ninetales, is the clear winner. It’s traditional yellowish fur is now a luscious silver, and the orange tips are now purple. With the red eyes conserved between versions, it looks stunningly like a Ghost-type Pokémon, which I think we can all agree would be exceedingly cool. Thanks to Reddit user DankieKang for the preview! Aside from trying to catch a perfect shiny Vulpix in Pokémon Go, there are a couple of other good reasons to partake in this week’s Spotlight Hour. The vast majority of players showing up for this Spotlight Hour will no doubt be doing so for the hour-long special bonus below: Remember - Spotlight Hour events only last for an hour - 6pm to 7pm (local time). Come back next week for a much calmer Spotlight hour, where Hoppip breezes into the Spotlight with its Double Catch Candy bonus. Good luck finding a perfect Vulpix! 
Pokémon Go
 
Android, 
            iOS
 
        From Assassin's Creed to Zoo Tycoon, we welcome all gamers
       
        Eurogamer welcomes videogamers of all types, so sign in and join our community!
       

Pokémon World Championships 2024 research tasks, rewards and bonuses in Pokémon Go                    
 

Pokémon Go event Pokémon list: All costume Pokémon, including party hat Pokémon, flower crown Pokémon and every Pikachu costume explained                    
 

Pokémon Go Shinies - how to catch Shiny Magikarp, Red Gyarados, and what we know about other Shiny Pokémon                    
 

Lileep 100% perfect IV stats, shiny Lileep in Pokémon Go                    
 

Pokemon Go Team Rocket Grunt counters and lineups in August 2024                    
 

Pokémon Go Mega Evolution update and new bonuses, how to Mega Evolve and all Mega Evolutions list                    
 

Pokémon Go Shadow Pokémon counters, how to beat Shadow Snorlax and how Purified Pokémon work                    
 

Pokémon Go Adventure Week Collection Challenges, research tasks and bonuses                    
 Bad puns and video games since 1999. Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.