
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)    Extensive testing capabilities established in Burscheid, Germany, and in Southeastern Michigan for internal combustion engines (ICE) powered by hydrogen (H2)   ICE expertise leveraged to support vehicle and engine manufacturers in a variety of ICE decarbonization approaches for sector-specific, CO2-neutral mobility solutions   NORTHVILLE, Mich., Feb. 1, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Tenneco has established new test facilities for hydrogen-powered internal combustion engines at its Powertrain test centers in Burscheid, Germany, and Ann Arbor, Michigan. These two test cells specifically dedicated to hydrogen ICEs enhance the company's globally integrated ICE test capabilities, supporting original equipment (OE) engine and vehicle manufacturers as they decarbonize the ICE. By adding H2-engine testing, Tenneco is well-positioned to provide technology solutions that can help to accelerate the reduction of carbon emissions of future combustion engine generations to achieve global climate goals faster. continue reading
 
 
Tenneco ́s Advanced Technology Center (ATC) at Ann Arbor, Mich.
© 2023 Tenneco Inc.
 
 
Tenneco ́s engine test center in Burscheid, Germany
© 2023 Tenneco Inc.
 
 
Preparation of a H2 ICE test cell
© 2023 Tenneco Inc.
 
'We support a pragmatic approach of complementary technologies that provide solutions for different transportation sectors,' said Stefan Rittmann, Vice President, Engineering with Tenneco's Powertrain business group. 'We contend it's not combustion-engine technology causing green-house gas emissions in the product-use phase; it is the fuel used in the ICE that defines the vehicle emissions. Therefore, green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energies and carbon-free by nature, offers great potential for cleaner transportation, especially in sectors difficult to electrify, such as heavy-duty commercial vehicles, on- and off-highway applications, and the industrial and marine sectors.'
As a leading supplier of engine components – including pistons, piston rings, bearings, seals and gaskets, valves, valve seats and guides, and ignition devices – Tenneco leverages its comprehensive ICE expertise in various hydrogen and alternative-fuel project partnerships with engine and vehicle manufacturers. Tenneco's new test cells support manufacturers in their H2 ICE concepts, testing prototype engines and components for durability, wear, emissions, fuel-efficiency and performance.
'Using our knowledge about the influence of hydrogen on the combustion process and on the Powertrain Control Unit (PCU), we are able to address hydrogen-specific challenges like pre-ignition and H2-slip into the crankcase as well as the influence on tribology and materials,' said Dr. Steffen Hoppe, Powertrain's Director Technology Rings & Liners, Tenneco. 'The R&D from our H2 test benches, along with support from our simulation tools like PRiME3D®, can accelerate the development process and help our customers go to market with highly efficient H2 combustion engines faster.''Tenneco is dedicated to being a good corporate citizen; you see it in our operations and in our products,' added Troy Kantola, Powertrain's Engineering Director, Technical Services. 'Our efforts to enhance our test sites reflect this in that now we are equipped to serve our customers' aspirations to reduce or eliminate entirely fuel-related CO2 emissions as quickly as possible.'Tenneco's new H2ICE test facilities provide a broad bandwidth of high-accuracy engine measurement capabilities, including:   Light and heavy-duty engine testing up to 700kW   Eddy current and AC dyno   ECU connectivity, calibration and tuning:    dynamic engine operation; driving cycles / engine in the loop    H2 supply up to 50bar and 90kg/h   H2 concentration measurement (exhaust and blow-by path)   Combustion Analysis   Emissions testing for HC, CO, CO2, NOX, FSN    Gaseous emissions   Particulate number (PN) count / PN size distribution; Particulate Matter (PM)   Radioactive tracer for oil emissions    In-line oil consumption and oil emission analysis   Automated fuel map testing   Ignition parameter evaluation   Thermal shock testing   Precise overall real-time engine monitoring   More related images can be downloaded here .  About Tenneco  Tenneco is one of the world's leading designers, manufacturers, and marketers of automotive products for original equipment and aftermarket customers. Through our DRiV, Performance Solutions, Clean Air and Powertrain business groups, Tenneco is driving advancements in global mobility by delivering technology solutions for light vehicle, commercial truck, off-highway, industrial, motorsport and the aftermarket.Visit  to learn more  .    CONTACTS:        Lorrie Kinney   Director Communications Tenneco Inc. +1 2482298256 [email protected]      Stefan Zech   Sr. Manager Communications Tenneco Inc. +49 172 697 3473 [email protected]     SOURCE Tenneco Inc. MENAFN01022023003732001241ID1105509421 NORTHVILLE, Mich., Feb. 1, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Tenneco has established new test facilities for hydrogen-powered internal combustion engines at its Powertrain test centers in Burscheid, Germany, and Ann Arbor, Michigan. These two test cells specifically dedicated to hydrogen ICEs enhance the company's globally integrated ICE test capabilities, supporting original equipment (OE) engine and vehicle manufacturers as they decarbonize the ICE. By adding H2-engine testing, Tenneco is well-positioned to provide technology solutions that can help to accelerate the reduction of carbon emissions of future combustion engine generations to achieve global climate goals faster. 
'We support a pragmatic approach of complementary technologies that provide solutions for different transportation sectors,' said Stefan Rittmann, Vice President, Engineering with Tenneco's Powertrain business group. 'We contend it's not combustion-engine technology causing green-house gas emissions in the product-use phase; it is the fuel used in the ICE that defines the vehicle emissions. Therefore, green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energies and carbon-free by nature, offers great potential for cleaner transportation, especially in sectors difficult to electrify, such as heavy-duty commercial vehicles, on- and off-highway applications, and the industrial and marine sectors.'
As a leading supplier of engine components – including pistons, piston rings, bearings, seals and gaskets, valves, valve seats and guides, and ignition devices – Tenneco leverages its comprehensive ICE expertise in various hydrogen and alternative-fuel project partnerships with engine and vehicle manufacturers. Tenneco's new test cells support manufacturers in their H2 ICE concepts, testing prototype engines and components for durability, wear, emissions, fuel-efficiency and performance.
'Using our knowledge about the influence of hydrogen on the combustion process and on the Powertrain Control Unit (PCU), we are able to address hydrogen-specific challenges like pre-ignition and H2-slip into the crankcase as well as the influence on tribology and materials,' said Dr. Steffen Hoppe, Powertrain's Director Technology Rings & Liners, Tenneco. 'The R&D from our H2 test benches, along with support from our simulation tools like PRiME3D®, can accelerate the development process and help our customers go to market with highly efficient H2 combustion engines faster.''Tenneco is dedicated to being a good corporate citizen; you see it in our operations and in our products,' added Troy Kantola, Powertrain's Engineering Director, Technical Services. 'Our efforts to enhance our test sites reflect this in that now we are equipped to serve our customers' aspirations to reduce or eliminate entirely fuel-related CO2 emissions as quickly as possible.'Tenneco's new H2ICE test facilities provide a broad bandwidth of high-accuracy engine measurement capabilities, including:   Light and heavy-duty engine testing up to 700kW   Eddy current and AC dyno   ECU connectivity, calibration and tuning:    dynamic engine operation; driving cycles / engine in the loop    H2 supply up to 50bar and 90kg/h   H2 concentration measurement (exhaust and blow-by path)   Combustion Analysis   Emissions testing for HC, CO, CO2, NOX, FSN    Gaseous emissions   Particulate number (PN) count / PN size distribution; Particulate Matter (PM)   Radioactive tracer for oil emissions    In-line oil consumption and oil emission analysis   Automated fuel map testing   Ignition parameter evaluation   Thermal shock testing   Precise overall real-time engine monitoring   More related images can be downloaded here .  About Tenneco  Tenneco is one of the world's leading designers, manufacturers, and marketers of automotive products for original equipment and aftermarket customers. Through our DRiV, Performance Solutions, Clean Air and Powertrain business groups, Tenneco is driving advancements in global mobility by delivering technology solutions for light vehicle, commercial truck, off-highway, industrial, motorsport and the aftermarket.Visit  to learn more  .    CONTACTS:        Lorrie Kinney   Director Communications Tenneco Inc. +1 2482298256 [email protected]      Stefan Zech   Sr. Manager Communications Tenneco Inc. +49 172 697 3473 [email protected]     SOURCE Tenneco Inc.  'We support a pragmatic approach of complementary technologies that provide solutions for different transportation sectors,' said Stefan Rittmann, Vice President, Engineering with Tenneco's Powertrain business group. 'We contend it's not combustion-engine technology causing green-house gas emissions in the product-use phase; it is the fuel used in the ICE that defines the vehicle emissions. Therefore, green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energies and carbon-free by nature, offers great potential for cleaner transportation, especially in sectors difficult to electrify, such as heavy-duty commercial vehicles, on- and off-highway applications, and the industrial and marine sectors.' As a leading supplier of engine components – including pistons, piston rings, bearings, seals and gaskets, valves, valve seats and guides, and ignition devices – Tenneco leverages its comprehensive ICE expertise in various hydrogen and alternative-fuel project partnerships with engine and vehicle manufacturers. Tenneco's new test cells support manufacturers in their H2 ICE concepts, testing prototype engines and components for durability, wear, emissions, fuel-efficiency and performance. 'Using our knowledge about the influence of hydrogen on the combustion process and on the Powertrain Control Unit (PCU), we are able to address hydrogen-specific challenges like pre-ignition and H2-slip into the crankcase as well as the influence on tribology and materials,' said Dr. Steffen Hoppe, Powertrain's Director Technology Rings & Liners, Tenneco. 'The R&D from our H2 test benches, along with support from our simulation tools like PRiME3D®, can accelerate the development process and help our customers go to market with highly efficient H2 combustion engines faster.' 'Tenneco is dedicated to being a good corporate citizen; you see it in our operations and in our products,' added Troy Kantola, Powertrain's Engineering Director, Technical Services. 'Our efforts to enhance our test sites reflect this in that now we are equipped to serve our customers' aspirations to reduce or eliminate entirely fuel-related CO2 emissions as quickly as possible.' Tenneco's new H2ICE test facilities provide a broad bandwidth of high-accuracy engine measurement capabilities, including: More related images can be downloaded here .   About Tenneco   Tenneco is one of the world's leading designers, manufacturers, and marketers of automotive products for original equipment and aftermarket customers. Through our DRiV, Performance Solutions, Clean Air and Powertrain business groups, Tenneco is driving advancements in global mobility by delivering technology solutions for light vehicle, commercial truck, off-highway, industrial, motorsport and the aftermarket. Visit  to learn more  .     CONTACTS:     Lorrie Kinney   Director Communications Tenneco Inc. +1 2482298256 [email protected]    Stefan Zech   Sr. Manager Communications Tenneco Inc. +49 172 697 3473 [email protected]  SOURCE Tenneco Inc. MENAFN01022023003732001241ID1105509421 MENAFN01022023003732001241ID1105509421 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN