Home » News By Siphumelele Khumalo 
										Journalist				 3 minute read 5 Apr 2023 06:29 pm National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) members march to Comair offices in Kempton Park on 15 March 2022. Picture: Michel Bega The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) has demanded the immediate reinstatement of all 100 workers who were dismissed following failed negotiations with the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) in March.   The strike action started on Tuesday and the union was picketing at Tenneco Inc. – an automotive company based in Gqeberha. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola said in a statement that the CCMA facilitation started at the beginning of this year and the process collapsed on 31 March 2023 when parties could not reach an agreement. “This entire retrenchment process and conduct of Tenneco management is what has provoked the strike action by Numsa and workers in general. “The reason that Tenneco introduced retrenchments was motivated by greed and by their desire to cut wages of ordinary workers by 50%,” said Hlubi-Majola. According to Hlubi-Majola, the termination letters were implemented immediately and this prevented the union from finalising communication with its members. READ MORE: WATCH: Numsa marches to US Embassy, demands release of Mumia Abu-Jamal She also stated that majority of the workers at the plant are Numsa members which earn R114 per hour however, management has reduced rates to R67 per hour or else workers would face dismissals. “We condemn the management of Tenneco for attempting to blackmail workers into accepting down varying of conditions. “As part of their rationale, Tenneco management during the CCMA consultation process cited the fact that they want to bring those earning R114 down to R67 in order to address what they call a wage anomaly which has resulted in workers earning different wages.”   Numsa said it demanded the immediate reinstatement of all 100 workers who have been dismissed, the rate of R114 per hour for the dismissed workers to be retained and the equalisation of rates for all employees doing the same work as those earning R114 per hour. The union said the strike is indefinite strike and it will continue until all demands are met. ALSO READ: Numsa threatens strike over Easter weekend if demands aren’t met Download our app and read this and other great stories on the move. Available for Android and iOS. Download The Citizen App for IOS and Android 
Click here to get The Citizen news and updates on Whatsapp.			 Do not miss a single story.Get all the latest news in your inbox. 

								2024 The Citizen. All Rights Reserved.
			