
UPDATED 11:11 EDT / OCTOBER 05 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Victor Dabrinze

 With artificial intelligence as a key business differentiator today, there’s a palpable clamor for technologies such as deep data analytics and machine learning, underpinned by competent cybersecurity. Database analytics software company Teradata Corp. focuses on delivering impactful use cases that address real-world business problems, making AI accessible to a wide range of stakeholders, from data scientists to IT professionals. “We know that AI is not just all the rage, but it’s certainly the zeitgeist or topic of the day,” said Jacqueline Woods (pictured, right), chief marketing officer of Teradata. “But the question is where do we go from here. Because, clearly, we are at an inflection point. If you look at all the things that have happened in history … whether it was the internet, whether it was mobile technology, that is where we are when it comes to AI, machine learning, deep data and analytics.” Woods and Vedat Akgun (left), vice president of data science and AI at Teradata, spoke with theCUBE industry analysts Rob Strechay and Rebecca Knight at Possible 2023, during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed Teradata’s expertise in AI, data security, the democratization of data, data quality and cost-effective scalability. (* Disclosure below.) When it comes to AI, security should never be an afterthought. In this era of generative AI especially, the importance of competent trust parameters cannot be overstated, according to Akgun. Within Teradata’s ClearScape Analytics platform, the company has built robust governance processes to ensure data is well-governed and protected — particularly when handling sensitive data from large customers and governments. Building a trusted AI ecosystem is pivotal to providing responsible and reliable AI solutions, according to Akgun. “As an AI practitioner of more than two decades, I have done a lot of use cases and solved tough business problems,” he explained. “As practitioners, we have to be very responsible in approaching how we use data for AI and ML models. Teradata has strong governance in place [with] model ops that will monitor the performance and make sure that the data is well-governed and protected.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of Possible 2023:  (* Disclosure: Teradata Corp. sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither Teradata nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU Foundry Technologies launches resellable GPU instances for more cost-effective AI NIST releases Federal Information Process Standards for post-quantum cryptography Services at Swiss manufacturer Schlatter disrupted in likely ransomware attack 2.7B records stolen from National Public Data released for free on hacking site Ragie launches with $5.5M in funding to ease RAG application development Waymo to start testing fully autonomous vehicles on San Francisco freeways Foundry Technologies launches resellable GPU instances for more cost-effective AI INFRA - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 1 HOUR AGO NIST releases Federal Information Process Standards for post-quantum cryptography SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 4 HOURS AGO Services at Swiss manufacturer Schlatter disrupted in likely ransomware attack SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 15 HOURS AGO 2.7B records stolen from National Public Data released for free on hacking site SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 15 HOURS AGO Ragie launches with $5.5M in funding to ease RAG application development AI - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 15 HOURS AGO Waymo to start testing fully autonomous vehicles on San Francisco freeways EMERGING TECH - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 17 HOURS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.