We use cookies and similar technologies. You can use the settings below to accept all cookies (which we recommend to give you the best experience) or to enable specific categories of cookies as explained below. Find out more by reading our Cookie Policy.   Popular Search Terms The ‘big six’ is a term often used to describe the six largest energy companies operating in the UK. Traditionally, they are made up of British Gas, EDF Energy, E.ON, npower, ScottishPower and SSE. At the height of their influence, these companies supplied seven out of 10 British households with gas and electricity.  However, there are a huge number of smaller suppliers gaining a greater foothold in the UK, and they are not only having an influence on the number of customers the big six supply, but they are also redefining what the big six are. In December 2019, SSE announced that it had reached an agreement with OVO for the latter company to acquire its customer portfolio.  Additionally, in 2021, npower agreed a deal to move its customer base to E.ON, which shifted all of its customers to a new sub-brand called E.ON Next. This left British Gas, EDF Energy, E.ON Next, OVO and ScottishPower as five of the biggest suppliers in the country. Meanwhile, First Utility, one of the more prominent challenger energy brands, was acquired by Shell and renamed Shell Energy. With the weight of one of the world's most recognisable and powerful companies behind it, Shell Energy had emerged as a legitimate competitor to the current dominant suppliers. However, in the summer of 2023, Shell announced it would be selling its domestic energy business in the UK to Octopus and exiting the market. That process was completed on 1 December 2023, and sees Octopus's market share grow as a result. As of May 2024, it is the UK's largest electricity supplier in terms of market share. British Gas remains the largest supplier overall because of its dominance of the gas supply market. This means that, since the early 2000s, the energy market has undergone significant change in terms of which suppliers have dominated market share. The chart below demonstrates this (in terms of electricity suppliers) - look out for Octopus's rise right at the end of the timeline. As of May 2024, we're back to a big six based on market share, but one that looks very different to the one most people think of: British Gas EDF Energy E.ON Next Octopus Energy OVO Energy ScottishPower. The main issue with just six firms providing the vast majority of the UK with energy is the potential for this dominance to result in uncompetitive tariffs and high energy bills. What's more, because of the way the energy companies are structured, they buy and trade the energy between each other. The UK’s economy is built on the principal of markets being competitive. That means that the more companies exist in a certain sector, the more competition there will be. This competition then forces firms to offer customers the best possible deals. As we've seen, the rise in smaller suppliers has created more competition in the market, but at the potential cost of chaos we saw during the energy market crisis when more than 25 smaller suppliers went out of business.  Before the current energy market crisis, which has almost completely halted customers' ability to switch, there were many misconceptions about how hard it is to switch energy suppliers. For example, some people still believe their cables and pipes have to be replaced or that, if they rent, they're not allowed to change. However, in a functioning energy market, switching couldn't be easier or more accessible - when you switch you still stay on the same energy, through the same pipes and with the same strength. The only difference is how the energy is charged. Smaller energy suppliers represent a valid alternative to the bigger names. Small suppliers often offer deals on par with, or in some cases cheaper than, the big six, and can provide a more comprehensive level of customer service. However, many people remain unsure about making the switch, even if they could end up making a saving. The main reason customers are afraid to move to a small supplier is that they fear that independent gas and electricity providers are more likely to go out of business. This isn't an unfounded fear, as there is very little to prevent anyone setting up an energy supply business, and many smaller companies have gone out of business over the past couple of years alone. Other concerns include customer service not matching up to that of the big six suppliers, or simply a lack of willingness to trust a brand they have never heard of. Switching energy supplier would normally be easy - usually all you'd need is your postcode and plan name. The process only takes a few minutes, though be aware that there is unlikely to be huge amount of deals (if any) to switch to.  Find out who your gas or electricity supplier is and which energy plan you are on with our step-by-step guide. You probably know it's a good idea to switch your energy, but do you know when is the best time to do it? Our guide explains how to avoid exit fees and get the best deal for you by switching at the right time. Looking for a cheaper gas or electricity supplier but not sure where to start? Check out our step-by-step guide on how to switch energy supplier. Scan the QR code below to start tracking your energy usage © 2000-2024 Uswitch Limited. An RVU Company. Broadband, mobiles, banking, insurance and energy utility comparison Uswitch Limited is a credit broker, not a lender, for consumer credit products.Uswitch Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under firm reference number 312850. You can check this on the Financial Services Register by visiting the FCA website.  Uswitch Limited is registered in England and Wales (Company No. 03612689) The Cooperage, 5 Copper Row, London, SE1 2LH.