By clicking a retailer link you consent to third-party cookies that track your onward journey. If you make a purchase, Which? will receive an affiliate commission, which supports our mission to be the UK's consumer champion. In this article Boiler efficiency is about how much usable heat you get from your boiler for every unit of energy you put into it. The more efficient your heating system, the less energy you'll be using to heat your home.  Minimum boiler efficiency standards have come a long way over the past two decades. Condensing boilers became mandatory in 2005, while 2018's Boiler Plus rules increased efficiency standards for boilers and installations.  Currently, new boilers must be A-rated, with minimum 92% ErP efficiency.  In people's homes, however, boilers don't always match this efficiency. Condensing boilers are designed as efficient systems that recover heat that would otherwise be lost. But how effectively they can do that job is limited by your heating system, the energy efficiency of your home and the way your boiler is controlled. It's important to think of your central heating as a system, of which your boiler is just one part. Other variables such as the size of your radiators, the quality of your boiler controls, your home insulation and the upkeep of your system (such as radiator balancing) all affect how the system runs. It's important to look at this as a whole and make sure it's all set up as well as it can be.  While an A-rated boiler can be over 90% efficient in some homes, modern electricity-run heat pumps are capable of 200-400% efficiency. Read more in our heat pump advice guides. Modern condensing combi boilers can be warmed sufficiently with heating flow temperatures of 60°C–65°C or lower. But many aren't running as efficiently as they could, because their factory default setting is 80°C, which is hotter than they need to run.  A gas boiler running at its maximum flow temperature doesn't even condense, so it recovers much less heat than it's capable of.  This means that consumers may have a false sense of security when buying a boiler with a high efficiency rating if it's not installed as a part of an efficient system. Simply put, an A-rated boiler isn't a surefire way to 90%+ efficiency in reality.  Find out how to balance and bleed your radiators to keep your central heating running properly. The best way to guarantee that a new boiler is working in a way that delivers value for money is to have it installed with weather compensation or load compensation controls. This will vary its flow temperature according to your home's heating need. A heating engineer should be able to sort this out for you and different boilers are compatible with different controls.  Other changes that can make your home heating more efficient, whether your boiler is new or old, are to insulate your loft and walls and fit larger radiators, which enable your central heating to run at lower temperatures.  You can change the heating flow temperature of your combi boiler yourself. If you're uncertain then check your manual or Nesta's interactive tool, which walks you through the process. Otherwise, you can ask a qualified heating engineer to do this for you during installation or during your annual service.  Without insulation and bigger radiators, some homes might heat not properly with lower flow temperatures, and a boiler could cycle more while leaving you chilly. So try turning your heating flow temperature down to 60°C–65°C, but dial it back up if your home can't easily get to the temperature set on your thermostat. Find out how to lower your combi boiler's flow temperature to reduce your heating bills. If a trusted technician sets your boiler flow temperature to its maximum, ask them why: they should be able to justify this to you.  If you have a boiler with a water tank or cylinder, don't adjust the flow temperature beneath 65°C without consulting an engineer first due to the risk of Legionella bacteria developing in standing water.  Heating experts The Heating Hub say that owners of Ideal, Vaillant and Worcester Bosch combi boilers could make further savings by turning off the pre-heat function (which is sometimes called Warm Start or Comfort mode). This is normally turned on when your boiler is first installed and keeps some hot water ready in the boiler, minimising the time needed for hot water to come out of the taps. Getting an annual boiler service is imperative for keeping your boiler running efficiently. Find out how to get the best boiler service.  Boiler companies sometimes talk up the benefits of replacing your old boiler with a new one to save money.  But what's often buried in the small print is that this presumes that you're replacing a G-rated boiler with an A-rated one that's working highly efficiently. This is convincing enough to shift units, but simply buying a new model isn't guaranteed to deliver this cost saving. An investigation into boiler replacement by The Heating Hub found that in Germany boilers are expected to last longer than 20 years, while, in the UK, predicted lifetimes are up to 10 years shorter.  Getting a new boiler of course entails a cost. Just swapping one combi with another will likely set you back between £1,500–£3,000, so you need significant efficiency gains to recoup that money in the near future. There's also an environmental cost to manufacturing and disposing of boilers unnecessarily. If your boiler is a non-condensing one bought before 2005, this swap could be worth it. But to reduce unnecessary waste and spending, we wouldn't recommend switching an old condensing boiler with a new one unless it's broken, functioning poorly or been condemned. Instead, invest this money in home insulation, spend it on compensation controls or save it for when you do need a new heating system (be that a boiler, a heat pump or whichever heating system is best for you).  Look at our insulation advice guides to see the ways you can reduce heat loss in your home – and how to get grants to help pay for it. If you do need a new boiler, than use our guide to the most reliable boiler brands, where Which? members can see which boiler brands are well-rated by customers and engineers. If you're not a Which? member, sign up now to see our boiler results. Our Best Buy boiler brands make boilers that are proven to be reliable in people's homes, owners are satisfied with their purchase and Which? Trusted Traders recommend them. Remember: even an A-rated boiler from a reliable brand isn't efficient if it's installed as a part of an inefficient system.  How to buy the best boiler: if you do need a boiler replacement, check out our guide first. The size of the boiler – in the context of efficiency – is its heat output, measured in kilowatts (kW).  In most cases, larger homes with more radiators and more bathrooms will need a larger heat output than smaller ones.  However, getting a boiler size that's too large for your home means you'll be using more energy to heat your home than you need to, meaning higher bills and carbon emissions than necessary.  All modern boilers are rated for efficiency under the European energy label ErP which stands for 'Energy-related Products' (introduced in 2015). It rates boiler efficiency from A+++ to F, the former being the most efficient boiler system you can get. Combi boilers have two ratings: space-heating (the letter under to the radiator symbol) and water heating (the letter under the tap symbol). Space-heating is how efficient the boiler is at heating your radiators, while the water heating component is how efficient the combi boiler is at heating your hot water for showers and taps.  Heat-only and regular boilers only have the space-heating part of the ErP label. The ErP label also shows boilers sound power level measures in decibels (dB). The higher the number, the louder the boiler is while operating. Finally, it also shows the boilers heating output in kW. Nearly all modern gas condensing boilers available in the UK get an A rating on this label. Additionally, in 2018, the UK government introduced 'Boiler Plus' legislation, which requires all boilers in England to have a minimum ErP efficiency of 92% (or 'A-rated').  If you're interested in the minutiae of how one boiler's efficiency compares to another, it can be more useful to use the SEDBUK 2009 efficiency rating. SEDBUK stands for Seasonal Efficiency of Domestic Boilers in the UK, and is a system used to classify and compare boilers on how efficient they are at converting fuel into heat.   Traditionally, SEDBUK ratings were shown on labels as a letter, but these letter labels have been withdrawn to avoid confusion with the ErP labels, which use similar ratings but are based on different principles.  There are currently two different types of SEDBUK ratings – called SAP scores – that you should look out for when you are buying a boiler.  Read our guide on boiler controls or thermostats to find out how to save further money on your heating bills. Gas and oil boilers burn fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.  New gas boilers will not be allowed to be sold from 2035 onwards (pushed back from 2025) and it's likely that in the future many of us will be heating our homes with heat pumps. If you're ready to start thinking about what that might entail for you, head over to our guide to air source heat pumps explained.  You won't be obliged to replace your existing gas boiler by 2035; you just won't be able to buy a new one after that. As you may well have your gas boiler for some time to come, using it effectively will help to reduce your carbon footprint. To find out more about the low carbon solutions available to you now, read our expert guides on: Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024