Giannis Antetokounmpo has become such an international superstar that it's hard to keep track of all his business ventures, aside from the fact that he's a centerpiece to the success the Milwaukee Bucks have had in recent years. Here are the many things inside the Most Valuable Portfolio: Google Pixel: Giannis did some photo editing in a commercial for the Google Pixel phone that aired during the Super Bowl. There are other ads for Google Pixel 7 as well, including one with actor Simu Liu.  Nike: Giannis has his own signature shoe from the athletic footwear powerhouse, the Zoom Freaks. In 2021, the Zoom Freak 3 hit shelves. Giannis has often gone viral for giving shoes away after his games. Degree: Giannis worked with the deodorant brand to help extend NIL deals to basketball student-athletes and appeared in commercials. JBL: If you want Freak Edition headphones, they can be yours thanks to the union between Antetokounmpo and the headphone manufacturer. Giannis even boosted a TikTok "Greek Out Dance Challenge" for the brand, and the company brought a life-size statue of Giannis to Milwaukee for a headphone campaign.  T-Mobile: Giannis has played H-O-R-S-E for the cellular carrier. Starry.Giannis joined the roster of players pitching the lemon-lime soda produced by Pepsi in Feb. 2024. TCL televisions: Giannis and brother Thanasis appeared in a commercial for the TV brand, putting Giannis in a variety of entertainment milieus (a western, a comedy special, a military action show, a baking show). "Never knew you had so much range," Thanasis jokes.  BMO Harris: Giannis tried to prove his identification without an official ID, offering various other items of Antetokounmpo merchandise in this playful spot. The Chicago-headquartered company has deep Milwaukee roots, with the former home of the Bucks (BMO Harris Bradley Center) bearing its name. And hey, this ad won a Clio Award. Breitling: Giannis appeared in a commercial for the watch company's "Chronomat GMT 40" in 2022.  Milko. The moving commercial for the Greek milk brand features actors portraying young Giannis and Kostas. Antidote Health: A mental health advocate, Giannis invested in a telehealth company in 2022. “Affordable health care for all, no matter where you are from — race, circumstance, location,” he said of why he got involved with the startup company. “Having access to affordable health care for all. It’s something that growing up we didn’t have, me and my family obviously being an immigrant illegally in Greece we weren’t able to have that." Candy Funhouse: In the first new venture after establishing the parent company of Ante, Inc., Giannis and his brothers invested in a Canadian-based candy distributor.  Antetokounbros Shop: With the Antetokounmpo brothers owning the trademark for "Antetokounbros," they're preparing to open a clothing shop under that brand at Milwaukee's Trade Hotel.  More:'Greek Freak': Bucks star Giannis lands trademark to use nickname on backpacks, clothing More:Giannis Antetokounmpo files three new trademarks, including 'STAY FR34KY' Ready Nutrition: Giannis forged an ownership stake with the Pittsburgh-based nutrition company (a sports drink startup) in 2020. Avli: A Greek restaurant that opened Sept. 20, 2023 in the Brewers Hill neighborhood of Milwaukee. Los Angeles Golf Club: Giannis and his bothers invested alongside Serena and Venus Williams in a franchise that will compete in the novel indoor The Golf League, beginning in January. Nashville SC: Giannis and his brothers joined a Nashville Predators player investing into the Nashville SC franchise in Major League Soccer.  Milwaukee Brewers: Giannis made major headlines in 2021 when he became a new investor in the MLB franchise, becoming the first new investor since Mark Attanasio took over the team in 2005.  NBA 2K19: Giannis was the cover athlete for the NBA 2K19 video game franchise.  Fortnite: Giannis "skins" are available in the popular first-person video game franchise from Epic Games. Hulu: Giannis dons ugly green slippers in this ad to pitch Hulu's live sports offerings.  whatsApp: Meta announced Giannis as its global pitchman for the messaging application in 2022 — one that happened to allow him to speak to family back home in Greece. The communication platform contributed to the documentary "Ugo: An Immigrant Story," which profiled a Giannis trip to explore his roots in Nigeria. Disney: He's not necessarily a pitchman, but he was an executive producer on the film "Rise," telling the life story of the Antetokounmpo family and available on Disney+. Improbable Media. The production and brand consulting company was announced in January 2024, with the first venture a documentary covering Antetokounmpo's life, streaming on Amazon. Former Duke basketball star Jay Williams is an investor. Charles Antetokounmpo Family Foundation: The organization pledges to help widows and refugees, young men and women, disaster victims and the oppressed from Milwaukee to Greece to Nigeria.  More:Feeling the stress, Giannis once almost quit the NBA. Now he wants to help as many people as possible with foundation Annual diaper drive. Giannis and his partner, Mariah Riddlesprigger, host an annual diaper drive for Milwaukee families in need. Teamed with the Milwaukee Diaper Mission, the 2022 version was called The BIG Give Back 2022. Aegean Airlines: Giannis has appeared as the central character in an on-flight safety video for the airline based in his native Greece.  SportsCenter: Like many notable athletes, Giannis has made an appearance on a "This is SportsCenter" commercial.  Chinese New Year: Giannis was part of the NBA ad campaign to celebrate the Chinese New Year back in 2019.  Calamos Investments:Promoting financial literacy, Giannis established the Antetokounmpo Sustainable Equity Fund, a collection of environmental, social and governance funds. Fund manager John Koudounis said the fund achieves this goal by investing in businesses with strong ethical standards, environmental practices and social influence. About 10% of the profits go to charitable causes like financial education.  GiANT Heart Campaign: Teaming with Novibet, the project focuses on social responsibility. Greek From Greece: Greek From Greece café cuisine restaurant chain partnered with the Antetokounmpo family in 2021 to grow its brand in the United States. Protergia. The energy provider in Greece tabbed Giannis as its spokesman.