Aerial photo of Texas Instruments Lehi Fab [Courtesy photo] Dallas-based semiconductor giant Texas Instruments Inc. plans to build its next 300-millimeter semiconductor wafer fabrication plant, or fab, in Lehi, Utah, next to the company’s existing 300-mm semiconductor wafer fab in Lehi. Once completed, TI’s two Lehi fabs will operate as a single fab. Haviv Ilan of Texas Instruments [Photo: courtesy of TI] “This new fab is part of our long-term, 300-mm manufacturing roadmap to build the capacity our customers will need for decades to come,” Haviv Ilan, TI executive vice president and chief operating officer, and incoming president and chief executive officer, said in a statement. “Our decision to build a second fab in Lehi underscores our commitment to Utah and is a testament to the talented team there who will lay the groundwork for another important chapter in TI’s future. With the anticipated growth of semiconductors in electronics, particularly in industrial and automotive, and the passage of the CHIPS and Science Act, there is no better time to further invest in our internal manufacturing capacity.” TI said the $11 billion investment marks the largest economic investment in Utah history. The expansion in Lehi will create roughly 800 more TI jobs as well as thousands of indirect jobs. The company said that it looks forward to strengthening its partnership with the Alpine School District and will invest $9 million to improve student opportunities and outcomes. “Companies like Texas Instruments continue to invest in Utah because of our world-class business climate and exceptional workforce,” Utah Gov. Spencer Cox said in a statement. “TI’s new semiconductor fab will solidify Utah as a global semiconductor manufacturing hub for generations to come.” The new fab will manufacture tens of millions of analog and embedded processing chips daily that will go into electronics everywhere, TI said. The fab will be designed to meet one of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) building rating system’s highest levels of structural efficiency and sustainability: LEED Gold, the company said. Plans for the fab include recycling water at nearly double the rate of the existing Lehi fab. Construction of the new fab is expected to begin in the second half of 2023, with production as early as 2026, TI said.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   The new 300-mm wafer fabrication plant will help support the future growth of semiconductors in electronics. Called RFAB2, the new "fab" is connected to RFAB1, which opened in 2009 as the world’s first 300-mm analog wafer fab. Inside, 15 miles of automated, overhead delivery systems will eventually move wafers between the two fabs. At full production, the Richardson fabs will manufacture more than 100 million analog chips a day that will go into electronics everywhere, TI says. Want to map your innovation-to-market commercialization path or apply for federal money through the $4 billion America's Seed Fund program? Or maybe you're an entrepreneur seeking to validate your customer's needs. The Texas SBDC Technology Commercialization Center wants to help. Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. Find your passion and give with purpose to support our community. TI has introduced the first purpose-built semiconductors with ultrasonic lens cleaning technology. The new tech enables camera systems to quickly detect and remove dirt, ice, and water using microscopic vibrations. "ULC can make widespread use of self-cleaning cameras and sensors a reality," says TI's Avia Yashar—an important development that could offer applications for sensor-packed autonomous vehicles. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.