ST. LOUIS, MO.  — Emerson, a global technology and software company, has agreed to purchase National Instruments Corp. (NI), a provider of testing and measurement tools, for about $8.2 billion, or $60 per share in cash. The deal was announced April 12 and is expected to close in the first half of Emerson’s 2024 fiscal year, which begins in October. Based in Austin, Texas, NI provides software-connected automated testing and measurement systems. The company listed $1.66 billion in 2022 revenue and operates in more than 40 countries, serving approximately 35,000 customers across the semiconductor, electronics, transportation, aerospace, and defense markets.  “We are pleased to reach an agreement with NI, whose best-in-class test and measurement product and software offerings accelerate Emerson’s progress toward a cohesive, higher-growth and higher-margin automation portfolio,” Lal Karsanbhai, Emerson president and CEO, said in a press release. “With this expansion into test and measurement, Emerson will enhance its automation capabilities and gain a broader set of customers that relies on NI’s solutions at critical points along the product development cycle.” Emerson already owns approximately 2.3 million shares of NI, representing approximately 2% of shares outstanding, which were acquired at a weighted average price of $36.84. As a result, Emerson’s effective per share purchase price is $59.61, according to the press release. “Over the past several months, we’ve been evaluating strategic options for the future of our business with the intent to maximize its value,” said Eric Starkloff, the NI CEO. “We ran a robust and comprehensive process, considered a range of potential options, and believe this represents the best outcome for all NI stakeholders. This transaction is a strong testament to the improvements and initiatives we’ve implemented in recent years that have transformed NI into a software-focused company with higher growth, better profitability, and lower cyclicality.”  The transaction has been approved by the board of directors at each company. Under its terms, NI shareholders will receive $60 per share in cash, which represents a 49% premium over NI’s closing share price as of January 12, 2023, the day prior to NI’s public announcement of a strategic review.  You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to The News audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of The News or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 On Demand Don’t miss your chance to learn from industry thought leaders and gain valuable insight on how the A2L transition will affect your HVAC business!
 During this webinar, we will discuss what acidic condensate is, how it’s formed, and the damage it can cause if not properly treated—while hitting on the latest regulations that are driving the adoption of condensing technology.
 Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing