businessLocal Companies By  Natalie WaltersBusiness reporter By  Natalie WaltersBusiness reporter 3:51 PM on Jan 19, 2023 CST Dallas-based Texas Instruments has selected a 24-year company veteran as its new president and CEO to replace one of the region’s most well-known corporate executives. Haviv Ilan will take the helm April 1, succeeding Rich Templeton, who is stepping down after an 18-year tenure running the semiconductor company credited with inventing the microchip. Templeton will remain as the company’s chairman. Ilan’s promotion comes at a critical time for the TI, which recently broke ground on an ambitious $30 billion plan to build four new chip plants in Sherman about an hour north of Dallas. It represents the largest capital investment Texas has seen from a company. TI also recently began producing chips at its new $6 billion silicon wafer fabrication plant in Richardson. Analysts expect TI to post record revenue when the company reports its year-end results next week, despite the chip industry going from shortages to glut. Its revenue totaled $18.3 billion in 2021. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Templeton praised his successor. “He has a proven track record of delivering results, an intense focus on innovation and a passion to win, all of which make him an exceptional leader,” Templeton said in a statement. Ilan is a known commodity to the company’s 31,000 employees. He joined TI in 1999 when it acquired Butterfly, a wireless startup company in Israel. He became senior vice president in 2014, executive vice president and chief operating officer in 2020 and joined the board of directors in 2021. “The combination of our broad portfolio of products, strong foundation of manufacturing and technology, reach of market channels and diverse and long-lived positions all put TI in a unique class of companies,” said Ilan, who has bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering from Tel Aviv University and an MBA from a joint program of Northwestern University and Tel Aviv University. Pam Patsley, TI’s lead director and retired CEO of MoneyGram International, described Ilan’s promotion as “a thoughtful and well-planned transition.” Templeton had to delay his retirement in 2018 when his then-successor Brian Crutcher was ousted from the top job after only six weeks for violations of the company’s code of conduct. In a video addressed to employees at the time, Templeton said: “My wife asked me if I was surprised, disappointed, mad or excited about returning as CEO. And the simple answer is yes, to all those thoughts and emotions.” He joined TI in sales in 1980 after graduating from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., with a degree in electrical engineering. From 1996 to 2004, he served as executive vice president and president of TI’s semiconductor business. He was promoted to CEO in 2004. As CEO, Templeton engineered the $6.5 billion acquisition of competitor National Semiconductor in 2011, a deal that solidified TI’s global lead in analog integrated circuits. Analog semiconductors are used to convert real-world signals, such as temperature readings or voice recordings, into digital signals. They are found in a huge number of devices and applications, from gas station fuel pumps to heart monitors to smartphones and tablets. The company produces billions of analog and embedded processing chips annually for some 80,000 products. Because of the breadth of TI’s portfolio, its performance is closely watched on Wall Street. In 2018, Templeton and his wife, Mary, became the first couple to chair a United Way of Metropolitan Dallas fundraising campaign. Two years later, the couple donated $51 million to the exclusive liberal arts college in upstate New York where they met. Under Templeton, TI’s foundation has invested more than $60 million to increase math and science skills in Black, Hispanic and female high school graduates since 2010. Templeton currently serves as vice chair of the Semiconductor Industry Association and is on the board of trustees of Southern Methodist University and Southwestern Medical Foundation. In 2022, companies announced 1,235 CEO exits, down 8% from the previous year and the lowest annual total since 2017, according to data released Thursday by global outplacement and business and executive coaching firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. Natalie Walters, Business reporter. Natalie is an award-winning reporter who covers banks, crypto, fraud, deals and other money topics for The Dallas Morning News. She was previously based in New York where she reported for The Motley Fool, TheStreet and Business Insider. She grew up in Augusta, Ga., and holds an MA in Investigative Journalism from The Cronkite School. 