Processing.... A Textron (NYSE: TXT) subsidiary will manufacture up to 64 multi-engine training systems to replace the U.S. Navy’s T-44C Pegasus trainer platform under a potential $677.2 million contract. Naval Air Systems Command said Wednesday the branch initially ordered 10 aircraft for approximately $113.1 million through the firm-fixed-price contract awarded to Textron Aviation. The company will provide spares, support equipment and training services to naval aviators as part of the agreement. “The T-54A will include the latest avionics and navigational updates, such as virtual reality and augmented reality devices, to ensure pilots are ready to face any challenges that come their way in tomorrow’s battlespace,” said Capt. Holly Shoger, program manager of the Naval Undergraduate Flight Training Systems Program Office. Textron Aviation will incorporate digital displays, ultra high and very high radios, automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast, radars and an integrated global positioning and inertial navigation system into the METS aircraft. Navy, Coast Guard and Marine Corps pilots will use the T-54A to learn how to operate V-22 Osprey, C-130 Hercules, E-2D Hawkeye and P-8 Poseidon and planes. NAVAIR expects the company to deliver the new aircraft within the 2024-2026 timeframe and plans to sunset the legacy T-44C six months after the initial delivery is completed. Raytheon, a subsidiary of RTX (NYSE: RTX), has received a $344 million contract to build and deliver two Standard Missile variants with a common guidance section to U.S. and international military customers. The company said Thursday it will produce the SM-2 Block IIICU and SM-6 Block IU missiles on a common production line for the Lockheed Martin (NYSE: LMT) has secured a $439.9 million contract modification from the U.S. Navy to help military services activate sites and carry out initial aircraft sustainment activities for their F-35 aircraft fleet. The modification covers the provision of support equipment, pilot flight equipment, post-ejection survival training material and related services in support of initial Boeing (NYSE: BA) has secured a $1.3 billion contract to build and deliver 17 F/A-18 multi-role strike fighter jets and a technical data package for fleet sustainment to the U.S. Navy. The service branch expects the delivery of the new Super Hornets to commence in winter 2026 and reach completion in spring 2027, Naval Air The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here