TOPICS PROVIDENCE – Textron Inc. on Thursday reported a $191 million profit in the first quarter, a 1% increase year over year that also beat Wall Street’s expectations. The company reported a profit of 92 cents per diluted share, up from 88 cents one year prior. The average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research was for earnings of 72 cents per share. Advances in robotics are transforming our world, and healthcare is no exception. Robotic-assisted surgery is… The maker of Cessna small planes and Bell helicopters posted revenue of $3.01 billion, level from a year ago. However, it did not meet Wall Street expectations. Three analysts surveyed by Zacks expected $3.08 billion. “In the quarter, we saw revenue growth at Aviation, Industrial and Systems,” said Textron Chairman and CEO Scott C. Donnelly. “At Bell, we expect to see revenue growth through the remainder of the year following the resolution of the FLRAA contract protest earlier this month, which allowed us to restart work on the program.” Textron segment revenue in the quarter: Log in to leave a comment  Some tickets still remain. Get yours today! Winners Announced! Register Today! Explore Healthcare Solutions at Our Rhode Island Summit We are now accepting applications! The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released significant updated regulations for 2 CFR 200,…  PBN's All Access Subscription PBN subscribers get ahead with unlimited access to PBN news, information, and insights from our editorial team, research and data, webinars and much more. PBN's Daily Newsletters Get PBN's top stories and breaking news every day in your email inbox.










SIGN UP

 









 @ProvBusNews Follow PBN for the latest news, insider access and more. Helping you succeed in business since 1986. © Providence Business News.  All Rights Reserved. Privacy   |    Terms of Use    |   Your Privacy Choices   |   Notice at Collection PROVIDENCE – Textron Inc. on Thursday reported a $191 million profit in the first quarter, a 1% increase year over year that also beat Wall Street’s expectations. The company reported a profit of 92 cents per diluted share, up from 88 cents one year prior. The average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research was for earnings of 72 cents per share. The maker of Cessna small planes and Bell helicopters posted revenue of $3.01 billion, level from a year ago. However, it did not meet Wall Street expectations. Three analysts surveyed by Zacks expected $3.08 billion. “In the quarter, we saw revenue growth at Aviation, Industrial and Systems,” said Textron Chairman and CEO Scott C. Donnelly. "At Bell, we expect to see revenue growth through the remainder of the year following the resolution of the FLRAA contract protest earlier this month, which allowed us to restart work on the program." Textron segment revenue in the quarter: