
Please login to see your bookmarks
 
Register for free to our services and get the newsletter
 Dear reader
Swiss scale-ups are stepping on the gas when it comes to customer acquisition: Taurus, Swissto12, Haelixa and Insiders have all won important new customers, Ecorobotix has sold its first robotic sprayers in North America and RigiTech will soon deliver its first drones to a new global partner.
The momentum is remarkable given the uncertain economic environment. It also shows how important foreign markets, and thus the opportunity to travel, are for Swiss start-ups. During the pandemic in 2021 and 2022, the Swiss start-up scene, measured in terms of investment, developed more slowly than that of many other countries. One reason – possibly the most important – may have been the travel restrictions that hampered customer acquisition.
The fact that Swiss start-ups are currently in a position to open up new markets gives hope that the supply of capital in Switzerland is more stable than in other countries. Two major financings point in this direction: Teylor, a Swiss fintech and European SME lender, has secured EUR 275 million and GetYourGuide has received a total of USD 194 million – comprising the USD 85 million Series F funding round and a revolving credit facility of USD 109 million.
This financing serves to further accelerate growth in the market. However, what is also striking is that very young companies are working with potential customers. A good example is Synthara, winner of this year’s ZKB Pionierpreis Technopark, which is developing a novel computer chip in which the computing power is embedded in the memory. This results in a 50-fold increase in computing power and efficiency, boosting AI adaptation and ubiquitous computing. The first chips are currently being produced and the start-up is already working with Bosch.
Impossible Materials, which has secured CHF 150,000 from Venture Kick, is developing a sustainable plant-based white pigment as its first product. Numerous potential customers have already knocked on the door of the Fribourg-based company.
HackCapital, a new financing platform for impact start-ups and investors, also focuses on sustainability. Our article explains how the platform wants to make pooled investments easier and faster, and its achievements so far.
The platform comes at the right time, as interest in crowd investing is generally increasing in Switzerland. Currently, two start-ups have raised more than CHF 1 million and other companies have collected six-figure sums. Our article gives an overview.
Next week the 25th Swiss Economic Forum takes place in Interlaken. One of the highlights will be the presentation of the Swiss Economic Awards. To mark the anniversary, the organisers have examined the impact of the 180 finalists and the results are more than impressive: the finalists have created a total of about  15,000 jobs – an average of 80 jobs per company.
You can meet me and my colleague Ritah Nyakato again this year at the SEF and the SEF.Founder Conference. On Tuesday I will also be present at the awards ceremony of Startfeld Diamant in St. Gallen and Ritah will be at the presentation of the SEIF Tech for Impact Awards in Zurich.
Finally, I would like to point out the imminent deadlines for the Luxury Innovation Awards, Swisscom Startup Challenge, Venture Leaders Medtech and Venture Leaders Cleantech.
Have a good weekendStefan Kyora
Editor in Chief, Startupticker.ch Dear reader Swiss scale-ups are stepping on the gas when it comes to customer acquisition: Taurus, Swissto12, Haelixa and Insiders have all won important new customers, Ecorobotix has sold its first robotic sprayers in North America and RigiTech will soon deliver its first drones to a new global partner. The momentum is remarkable given the uncertain economic environment. It also shows how important foreign markets, and thus the opportunity to travel, are for Swiss start-ups. During the pandemic in 2021 and 2022, the Swiss start-up scene, measured in terms of investment, developed more slowly than that of many other countries. One reason – possibly the most important – may have been the travel restrictions that hampered customer acquisition. The fact that Swiss start-ups are currently in a position to open up new markets gives hope that the supply of capital in Switzerland is more stable than in other countries. Two major financings point in this direction: Teylor, a Swiss fintech and European SME lender, has secured EUR 275 million and GetYourGuide has received a total of USD 194 million – comprising the USD 85 million Series F funding round and a revolving credit facility of USD 109 million. This financing serves to further accelerate growth in the market. However, what is also striking is that very young companies are working with potential customers. A good example is Synthara, winner of this year’s ZKB Pionierpreis Technopark, which is developing a novel computer chip in which the computing power is embedded in the memory. This results in a 50-fold increase in computing power and efficiency, boosting AI adaptation and ubiquitous computing. The first chips are currently being produced and the start-up is already working with Bosch. Impossible Materials, which has secured CHF 150,000 from Venture Kick, is developing a sustainable plant-based white pigment as its first product. Numerous potential customers have already knocked on the door of the Fribourg-based company. HackCapital, a new financing platform for impact start-ups and investors, also focuses on sustainability. Our article explains how the platform wants to make pooled investments easier and faster, and its achievements so far. The platform comes at the right time, as interest in crowd investing is generally increasing in Switzerland. Currently, two start-ups have raised more than CHF 1 million and other companies have collected six-figure sums. Our article gives an overview. Next week the 25th Swiss Economic Forum takes place in Interlaken. One of the highlights will be the presentation of the Swiss Economic Awards. To mark the anniversary, the organisers have examined the impact of the 180 finalists and the results are more than impressive: the finalists have created a total of about  15,000 jobs – an average of 80 jobs per company. You can meet me and my colleague Ritah Nyakato again this year at the SEF and the SEF.Founder Conference. On Tuesday I will also be present at the awards ceremony of Startfeld Diamant in St. Gallen and Ritah will be at the presentation of the SEIF Tech for Impact Awards in Zurich. Finally, I would like to point out the imminent deadlines for the Luxury Innovation Awards, Swisscom Startup Challenge, Venture Leaders Medtech and Venture Leaders Cleantech. Have a good weekendStefan Kyora Editor in Chief, Startupticker.ch Callirius hat eine Pre-Seed-Finanzierungsrunde abgeschlossen: Family Offices und vermögende Privatpersonen haben 1,5 Millionen Franken in das Greentech-Startup investiert. Die frischen Mittel werden für den weiteren Aufbau und die Skalierung des operativen Geschäfts eingesetzt.  Launched by the founders of the Lausanne-based HackGroup, HackCapital opens up a new route of financing for impact startups from small ticket accredited investors. More than 30 startups and funds have already been enabled to pool capital into their round and tap into HackCapital’s investor network including Swiss based Cultivated Biosciences. The Swiss Economic Award has been honouring promising young companies since 1999. For the 25th award ceremony, the Swiss Economic Forum assessed the competition’s impact: the 180 finalists have meanwhile created around 15,000 jobs. The best of emerging brands and startups in luxury is waiting to be discovered at the 5th Luxury Innovation Summit and Awards from 18 to 20 September 2023 in Geneva. The Luxury Innovation Awards is a one-of-a-kind chance for emerging luxury brands and startups to present their unique ideas for the luxury market. The winners will be unveiled at the Global Awards Ceremony during the Luxury Innovation Summit at Palexpo, Geneva. Swiss-based agtech Ecorobotix announces the launch of its revolutionary sprayer, ARA, in North America, arriving first in Canada. The company has sold two machines so far directly to Delfland and Ferme Hotte & Van Winden, two of Canada’s top vegetable growers, both directly supplying to US cities like New York and Boston. After only a short time of training, the ARAs are already making an impact in their fields. Teylor, a Swiss fintech and European SME lender, has closed one of the largest fundraisings in the European private debt market for alternative lenders and the fintech industry so far in 2023. The €275m in fresh capital from British investors will enable Teylor to continue its rapid growth and support more than 500 European SMEs on its credit platform. GetYourGuide, the leading global platform for discovering and booking travel experiences, closed a $85 million Series F funding round and secured a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of $109 million in addition. The round represents a valuation increase for the company. Adaptyv Bio lets users test and synthesise any protein, while Hexem has developed a novel water cleaning technology that produces biogas from industrial wastewater. The FIT Tech Seed loan will help Adaptyv Bio roll out its platform and Hexem test its industrial demonstrator. University of Zurich spin-off Synthara is developing novel computer chips in which the computing power is embedded in the memory. This results in a 50-fold increase in computing power and efficiency boosting AI adaption as well as ubiquitous computing. Synthara received the first prize worth CHF 100k. Co-finalists AgroSustain and MUVON Therapeutics each receive CHF 10,000. In addition to two experienced Venture Capital funds, b2venture and Wingman Ventures, Calvin Risk has welcomed a small consortium of strategic angels who invested in its second tranche of the pre-seed round. Zum ersten Mal seit der Lancierung der ersten Plattform im Jahr 2008 verzeichnet der Crowdfunding-Markt einen Rückgang bezüglich dem Gesamtvolumen an investiertem Kapital. Einzig bei den Crowdinvestings in Startups und Unternehmen verzeichneten die befragten Plattformen einen deutlichen Anstieg gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Insgesamt wurden in über 4'600 Kampagnen total 662,4 Millionen Franken investiert. Zahlreiche Startups haben in den vergangenen Wochen sowohl über neue als auch bestehende Crowdinvestment-Plattformen Anteile ihrer Unternehmen angeboten. Die meisten von ihnen waren äusserst erfolgreich – nur eines konnte seine Crowd nicht wie gewünscht mobilisieren. Customers outside Switzerland enable startups to spread their footprints worldwide. Four scale up startups offering solutions in fintech, satellite communication, sustainability and sportstech have won globally active companies as customers. Das Uni Zürich-Spin-off Textshuttle will nach erfolgreichen Jahren im B2B-Bereich nun auch für private Nutzerinnen und Nutzer zum Begriff werden. Mit dem Launch einer kostenlosen Übersetzungsplattform erhofft sich das Jungunternehmen zusätzliches User-Feedback für die Weiterentwicklung seiner Lösung. Ferner will Textshuttle künftig seine Expansionsbestrebungen verstärken. With Spright, a US-based market-leading unmanned aerial system operator, RigiTech has won a key operating partner of its Eiger drone systems in Europe and worldwide to healthcare clients. RigiTech will be delivering the first six Eiger systems over the next few months and the training of Spright’s key staff has already begun. Four startups are still in the run for the Swiss Fintech Award. Pelt 8 and Sustainaccount are contesting for the category prize ‘early-stage’ and NetGuardians and Taurus for the ‘growth stage’. Abiogen Pharma, a leading Italian company specialising in osteoarticular and bone metabolism diseases, has acquired more than a 97% stake in EffRx Pharmaceuticals SA, a Swiss company offering prescription drugs for musculoskeletal and rare pathologies on European and international markets. Three startups have published the results of their phase 1 and phase 3 clinical trials. Molecular Partners, Neurimmune and Oculis have all achieved positive results for their studies investigating DARPin therapeutics, therapies for solid tumors and Diabetic Macular Edema. The Fribourg-based startup Impossible Materials has won the third stage of the Venture Kick program, securing itself CHF 150’000. The prize money will allow the startup to further develop its sustainable, cellulose-based materials for various industrially manufactured products. Founded at the EPFL, Artiria Medical developed a real-time deflectable guidewire to allow neurosurgeons to safely navigate brain arteries to improve the treatment of strokes. The receipt of the 510(k) clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is significant for the startup to market the device in the U.S.   What if healthcare were always available on demand? The leading innovation organizations, SHS, EPFL and Biopôle are pleased to co-host an exclusive event called SHS Cru 2023 at the impressive EPFL Campus in Lausanne on June 13, 2023. This event aims to create a melting pot for the latest healthcare innovations. Are you about to take the leap into the world of biotech entrepreneurship as you spin off from academia? Then our very first Open Mic Next in Biotech Series on growing from early stage to mature company is exactly where you want to be. Matchmaking event for startups, small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), service providers, investors as well as academic and global players from the medtech sector. Im Fokus des Events stehen Schlüsseltechnologien, die Industrie und Gesellschaft bewegen: Energie, personalisierte Gesundheit, Künstliche Intelligenz. Der Tag des Gründens Graubünden 2023 bietet die Gelegenheit, die wichtigsten Tipps & Tricks für den Einstieg in die Selbständigkeit zu sammeln und durch Startup Stories direkten Einblick ins Jungunternehmertum zu erlangen! Selected projects are selected and allowed to present their business ideas monthly before a jury of successful entrepreneurs and investors. Mit Keynotes von erfolgreichen Gründerinnen und Gründern, einer Lernwerkstatt, einem Speed-Networking und Marktständen von Dienstleistern bietet der startup baselland Event das nötige Rüstzeug für die Firmengründung.  The upcoming webinar will cover everything you need to know about tokenized shares and how it makes life as an investor easier. Join the Trust Valley for Tech4Trust Season 4 Awards Ceremony, in which we will crown the best cybersecurity and digital trust startups for 2022-2023. Four exceptional startups will be honoured with awards from our strategic partners, including State of Vaud, PwC Switzerland, Fortinet and the Herbert & Audrey Rosenfield Foundation. The ten SEIF Tech for Impact Awards finalists will present to the audience and jury to win one of the three prizes. Der Abendanlass des Tag des Gründens Graubünden bietet die Gelegenheit, die wichtigsten Tipps & Tricks für den Einstieg in die Selbständigkeit zu sammeln und durch Startup Stories direkten Einblick ins Jungunternehmertum zu erlangen. During this STARTIMPULSE, David Giron, CEO of Money Masters will come to explore Financial Literacy for Startups. With extensive experience, David will give useful financial advice on how to manage the finance of one's startup. Venture case is the second stage of Venture Kick, carried out three months after the first stage. The winning teams will receive CHF 40.000 each. Am 7. Juni 2023 möchten wir uns gerne mit dir und anderen Menschen treffen, die sich für eine gerechte und gleichberechtigte Gesellschaft einsetzen und offen darüber diskutieren wollen. Wir bieten inspirierenden Frauen, in verschiedenen Phasen ihres beruflichen Werdegangs, eine Plattform, auf welcher sie ihre Erfahrungen und Erlebnisse mit uns teilen und uns wertvolle Einblicke in ihre Karrieren und persönlichen Entwicklungen geben. Am 8. und 9. Juni 2023 feiert das Swiss Economic Forum (SEF) sein 25-jähriges Jubiläum in Interlaken. Mit dem Motto «Make it happen.» setzt die führende Wirtschaftskonferenz der Schweiz in ihrer Jubiläumsausgabe den Fokus auf das Schweizer Unternehmertum und widmet sich den «Hidden Champions» unter den Schweizer KMU. The SEF.Founder Conference at the Swiss Economic Forum has established itself as one of the premier gatherings for scale-ups, ambitious start-ups and SME. It provides first-hand insights and a unique networking opportunity at the conference as well as at the Swiss Economic Forum networking event.   Venez célébrer l’innovation lors d’une soirée dédiée à l’art d’entreprendre, le jeudi 8 juin à 17h30, salle Galilée à Y-PARC. Ne manquez pas cette opportunité de découvrir autrement les start-up made in HEIG-VD. The balance of power toward patients is changing - are we ready to put the patient in the driver’s seat? Join the next edition of Open Mic Next in Health Series on the topic Turning the tide: Patient Engagement in Industry and Practice to find out. Our industry partner Swiss Prime Site, one of Europe’s leading listed real estate companies  is looking for pioneering startup ideas in the EnterpriseTech, Security & Metaverse. Swiss Medtech Day is the leading conference of the Swiss medical technology industry – attracting over 600 industry representatives every year. Découvrez les principales étapes à franchir et les questions essentielles à aborder pour bien démarrer votre entreprise ! We invite women leaders, entrepreneurs, technologists, and changemakers to join us for this transformative event Der Investors Day bietet als Match-Making-Event ausgewählten, innovativen Start-ups unterschiedlicher Branchen in den Phasen Start-up und Wachstum sowie hochkarätigen Investoren die Gelegenheit, sich zu begegnen. Eine Supply Chain Strategie bildet die Grundlage für die mittel- bis langfristige Ausrichtung der gesamten Wertschöpfungskette und damit der Absicherung der Wettbewerbsfähigkeit. Learn from growth cases of startups, and listen to the expert panel and audience contributions. Venture kick is the third stage of Venture Kick carried out six months after the second stage. The winning teams will receive CHF 100.000 each. In our Swiss Venture Capital Report Update you will find the results for the first half year 2024 plus the results on a survey among 100 Swiss investors which provides an outlook for the coming 12 months.  Create your personal archive Get the Newsletter Set award alarms 
			By continuing to use this website you agree with our			TERMS AND CONDITIONS
