By Dominic Perry and RAF Fairford2023-07-14T18:10:00+01:00 Textron Aviation is advancing the development of several modifications to the Cessna SkyCourier twin-turboprop for special mission applications which will be installed on a demonstrator aircraft next year. In addition, the airframer is confident that, by the end of 2023, it will have secured its first order for the new variant.  Source: Textron Aviation SkyCourier is being modified with additional sensors and wing stores Initially developed for the cargo and commuter airline markets, the 8.6t maximum take-off weight SkyCourier entered service with global logistics firm FedEx last year. However, the US airframer sees the platform as ideal for military special missions, with potential applications including surveillance, medical evacuation or maritime patrol and has brought a test aircraft, serial number 3, to the Royal International Air Tattoo at RAF Fairford in the UK for its European debut. Several mission kits are currently in development and will be installed on a demonstrator aircraft next year, says Andrew Pall, regional sales director special missions – Europe. These include four wing hardpoints: two inboard stations designed for auxiliary fuel tanks and a pair of external sensor stations, capable of carrying 280kg (620lb) and 180kg-plus loads, respectively. In addition, a retractable electro-optical/infrared sensor pod will be installed in place of the nose baggage compartment. Textron Aviation will also upgrade the starter generators on the Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6 engines to better power the planned mission equipment. “We are very far along in the engineering and maturation [of these features] and they will be incorporated in a demonstrator aircraft,” says Pall. For the medevac role, the SkyCourier has already been installed with a trio of three-tier LifePort SLS stacking stretchers, plus two critical care berths. Pall sees the turboprop as capable of performing multiple roles. “What really excites us about this aircraft is that without the seats inside it is a really malleable and reconfigurable piece of equipment that could be deployed for multiple missions,” he says. He says customer interest in the platform has been “incredible” and the airframer is in “very mature discussions with several customers”. He expects the first order to be received in 2023. US civil certification for the SkyCourier was secured in 2022 and the airframer hopes European validation will follow by the end of 2024. 
2023-08-10T17:54:00Z
By Pilar Wolfsteller
 Textron Aviation has secured certification for its SkyCourier twin turboprop from the National Civil Aviation Authority of Brazil (ANAC), clearing the way for operations in that Latin American country. 
2024-08-20T04:42:00Z
By Greg Waldron
 Korea Aerospace Industries and Thai Aerospace Industries have entered a pact related to the local support of T-50TH advanced jet trainers. 
2024-08-20T00:16:00Z
By Jon Hemmerdinger
 Boeing confirms it has halted flight tests of its entire 777-9 test fleet after discovering the failure of an engine-related structural component, marking a setback to the widebody’s already delayed certification programme. 
2024-08-19T14:58:00Z
By Craig Hoyle
 The UK Space Command’s first owned earth observation microsatellite has been launched, providing the inaugural element of a planned space-based intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) constellation. 
2024-08-19T05:49:00Z
By Greg Waldron
 The US government has indicted a California businessman for allegedly attempting to supply components for the McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom to Iran. 
2024-08-16T08:17:00Z
By Greg Waldron
 The US government has cleared the potential sale of six General Atomics Aeronautical Systems (GA-ASI) MQ-9 Block 5 Reaper unmanned air vehicles to Italy. FlightGlobal is the global aviation community’s primary source of news, data, insight, knowledge and expertise. We provide news, data, analytics and advisory services to connect the aviation community globally and help organisations shape their business strategies, identify new opportunities and make better decisions faster. Site powered by Webvision Cloud