On today's episode of the 5 Things podcast: Trump's lawyer claims efforts to overturn 2020 election were only 'aspirational,' not criminal Former President Donald Trump's lawyer claimed efforts to overturn 2020 election were only 'aspirational,' not criminal. Plus, Des Moines Register Audience Growth Strategist Brian Smith talks about the Political Soapbox at the Iowa State Fair, 11 military vessels from China and Russia found operating near the Aleutian Islands last week were met by four U.S. Navy warships, USA TODAY White House Correspondent Francesca Chambers talks about Vice President Kamala Harris' role on cultural issues, and what happened to the U.S. women's national team? Podcasts: True crime, in-depth interviews and more USA TODAY podcasts right here Hit play on the player above to hear the podcast and follow along with the transcript below. This transcript was automatically generated, and then edited for clarity in its current form. There may be some differences between the audio and the text. Taylor Wilson: Good morning. I'm Taylor Wilson and this is 5 Things you need to know Monday, the 7th of August 2023. Today, what Trump's legal team is saying about the latest indictment. Plus, we head to Iowa for a look at the Political Soapbox, and what happened to the U.S. at this summer's World Cup? ♦ One of former President Donald Trump's attorneys in his federal case over attempts to overturn election results defended Trump yesterday against allegations that he knowingly spread false claims of election fraud to remain in power. John Lauro on NBC's Meet The Press, said, "President Trump believed in his heart of hearts that he had won that election." Trump's defense team has argued that free speech protections protect him against the indictment, which accuses him of a criminal conspiracy to overturn the 2020 election. Meanwhile, nearly 40 House Democrats signed a letter last week to the Judicial Conference, asking the body to allow Trump's federal criminal trials to be broadcast on television. They argued that increased public access to the court proceedings will be crucial for the health of American democracy. ♦ One of the first important stops on the presidential election calendar isn't in Washington, DC, it's in Iowa at the state fair. I spoke with Des Moines Register Audience Growth Strategist Brian Smith about the Political Soapbox, which kicks off on Thursday. Brian, thanks for hopping on 5 Things. Brian Smith: Yeah, happy to be here. Taylor Wilson: So, what is the Political Soapbox at the Iowa State Fair and how important is it for presidential hopefuls? Brian Smith: Yeah, so the Political Soapbox is really the marquee political event at the state fair. It's not an inherently political event, but this provides candidates a great opportunity to interact with and engage the unique crux section of Iowans who turn out to the fair. And really its hallmark is its simplicity. It's not a highly produced political event. It is simply a candidate with a stage, in 20 minutes. And they're outdoors right along the main thorough fair through the fairgrounds, and just really have a chance to build that audience and reach people in unique ways and is really a pivotal moment in the kickoff for the caucus cycle. Taylor Wilson: And Brian, who's currently on the roster to speak? Brian Smith: Yeah, so we have 13 presidential candidates that are going to be joining us on the Soapbox this year. Two of them are Democrats. So, Marianne Williamson and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who are challenging President Biden for that nomination. We have one Libertarian, Chase Oliver. Otherwise, the rest are all the Republican candidates who are trying to vie for that spot. So, they range from candidates like Ryan Binkley and Doug Burgum, who are maybe a little less known, through to former Vice President Mike Pence and some of those other bigger names. Taylor Wilson: And what are the issues that stand out for Iowans leading up to the caucuses? Where will the speakers be looking to score points? Brian Smith: Particularly for the Republican candidates, that's where there's the big competition to get that nomination, and Iowa Republicans look a lot like other Republicans on the national level. They're interested in things about the economy and inflation, and they're concerned about immigration at the southern border. And particularly here in Iowa, we're seeing a lot of concern about what's happening in schools, what books are available, what subjects are being taught, things that candidates are describing as the "woke left." And so that'll be likely a topic we'll see candidates address quite a bit. And in Iowa, the Republican base that turns out for caucuses tends to be more religious. There's a large evangelical camp that's very influential in the caucus process, and so we'll see how candidates try to appeal to them, particularly on issues like religious freedom and abortion. Taylor Wilson: Yeah. So, January 15th is the date of the Iowa Caucus for Republicans. Iowa, as you've outlined, and as our listeners probably know, is a pivotal first state in proving the electability of candidates. What's the story for Democrats, Brian? Brian Smith: Yeah, so since about the 1970s, Democrats and Republicans in Iowa have caucused at the same time, and they've been the first in the nation. Caucuses are party run events. They're not state elections, organized by the state system. And so this year's a little more complicated. At the national level, the Democrats want to reorganize their nominating schedule and have kind of bumped Iowa out of that first spot and want them to go somewhere in the Super Tuesday or after range. Iowa Democrats are still trying to figure out exactly what their caucus might look like this year and whether they're willing to risk going rogue and defying the DNC to go earlier. Taylor Wilson: I'm sure our listeners are curious here. What's the one Iowa State Fair food that every candidate will need to sample, to be seen as legit, in the eyes of Iowan voters? Brian Smith: That's a tough one, particularly in Iowa, that is a big farming state. There are big delegations from the pork producers and the Cattlemen Association that are at the fair. It's a pretty standard photo op for candidates to come flip pork chops with the pork producers and make stops at that cattleman ranch. I think everyone's probably going to grab a corn dog, but hitting up the local Iowa farmers is probably the essential piece. Taylor Wilson: All right. Brian Smith from the Des Moines Register. Thanks for your time, Brian. Brian Smith: Yes. Thank you. ♦ Taylor Wilson: Eleven military vessels from China and Russia found operating near the Aleutian Islands last week were met by four U.S. Navy warships. Alaska's two senators issued a joint news release on Friday saying they had been briefed about the operation. Republican Dan Sullivan said that the Russian and Chinese ships operating together is a reminder that we've entered a new era of authoritarian aggression. Still, the Northern Command told the Wall Street Journal that the vessels remained in international waters and were not considered a threat. ♦ Vice President Kamala Harris is embracing a new role, battling the GOP over cultural issues. I spoke with USA TODAY White House Correspondent Francesca Chambers for more. Thanks for hopping on 5 Things, Francesca. Francesca Chambers: Oh, it's always a pleasure. Taylor Wilson: So, I want to start here. Can you outline for us what Vice President Kamala Harris's fight with Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has looked like on Black history curriculum guidelines? Francesca Chambers: So, after the state of Florida put out its new African-American history curriculum, Vice President Kamala Harris spoke out against it immediately. She went down to the state of Florida and intentionally held an event where she met with civil rights leaders and also rallied Democrats in the area against it. Now, after she raised the issue, then you saw several Republicans, Black Republicans, also come in behind her on that. They also said that Ron DeSantis needed to clarify his position and also came out against the curriculum. DeSantis had said that he was not involved in creating it, however he did defend it. Now, what was the specific issue with it that she had? The curriculum, in part, states that African-Americans, while they were in captivity, benefited from the skills that they developed. So this has been a real sticking point, not just for the Vice President, but also for several of Ron DeSantis' GOP competitors, as well as elected Black Republicans. Taylor Wilson: You talk about Kamala Harris as this culture warrior going forward. What other cultural issues has the Vice President honed in on? Francesca Chambers: This really began before the midterm elections, when the Supreme Court was about to rule in the Dobbs case. She immediately jumped on the issue of abortion rights, and that did become one of the defining issues in the midterm elections. So, after having played that role in 2022, now her allies in the Biden campaign, see an opportunity for her to focus on issues like reproductive rights, but also guns and issues such as the slavery debate with Ron DeSantis, but other things, too, that would fall in that culture war bucket in the 2024 election. Taylor Wilson: Yeah, I mean, you write about this idea of energizing lethargic Democrats. What does all this tell us about what Harris's role might be going forward to help Biden and the Democratic ticket for 2024? Francesca Chambers: So, President Biden has also given remarks on these issues, but he has largely, and this is a strategy the White House has pursued, been focused on his economic agenda and focused on the business of being President. As one of my sources called it, the Rose Garden Strategy, a very traditional role. Whereas we've seen the Vice President take on a role where she is attacking the GOP, specifically the Republicans who were campaigning for election in 2024 and competing for the GOP nomination. Taylor Wilson: And on the GOP side of things, Francesca, how do Republicans view Harris in this role? I mean, will she increasingly become a focal point of attack for the GOP in these culture wars? Francesca Chambers: That's one of the concerns that Vice President Kamala Harris's allies have, is that she'll become a target, but already she was. Nikki Haley, one of the Republican presidential contenders, had focused on her already. And now in her dispute with Ron DeSantis, he has capitalized on it. He invited her down to the state of Florida to have a conversation about the Black history standards. But again, Republicans were already campaigning against her. So her allies think it's important for her to push back on the things that they're hearing come out of the GOP race, especially as we look toward that first Republican presidential debate. Taylor Wilson: All right, USA TODAY White House Correspondent Francesca Chambers. Great insight, as always. Thanks so much, Francesca. Francesca Chambers: Thanks so much. ♦ Taylor Wilson: It was not to be this year for the U.S. Women's National Team. They went crashing out yesterday at the World Cup to Sweden after a 120-minute scoreless draw forced a penalty shootout, which the U.S. then lost. It was their earliest exit ever at a major tournament and comes at a time when the rest of the world is catching up in women's soccer. With the exception of a quarterfinal loss at the 2016 Olympics, they'd reached the semi-finals at every World Cup and Olympics tournament. This time, they couldn't even make the quarters. Our own USA TODAY Sports Columnist Nancy Armour, who previewed the rest of the tournament on 5 Things Saturday, wrote that this will rank among the biggest failures in sports history. She outlines a number of reasons how this happened. Check out a link in today's show notes. And thanks for listening to 5 Things. If you like the show, please subscribe and leave us a rating and review on Apple Podcasts. And if you have any comments, you can reach us at podcasts@usatoday.com. I'm back tomorrow with more of 5 Things from USA TODAY. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: VP Harris and cultural issues, US women's soccer woes: 5 Things podcast Prosecutors in New York are taking no position on former President Donald Trump's request to delay sentencing of his "hush money" conviction until after the November election.  Instead, the Manhattan district attorney's office said in a letter Monday it would defer to Judge Juan Merchan.  Trump is currently scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 18 after a jury convicted him of all 34 felony counts of falsifying business records related to a hush payment to porn actress Stormy Daniels. In a presidential campaign like no other -- and just four weeks after President Joe Biden bowed out of the race -- Democrats are gathering in Chicago this week to nominate Vice President Kamala Harris as their candidate to take on former President Donald Trump.  Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz made an unannounced appearance at Pennsylvania's delegation breakfast in Chicago Monday morning and spoke glowingly about President Joe Biden ahead of the president's DNC speech Monday night.  "We get an opportunity tonight to say a thank you to the best president of my lifetime that I've been able to witness, to someone who's delivered time and time again, someone who made the selfless act of handing that torch to an incredible leader," Walz said. "Boy Meets World" alum Danielle Fishel is opening up about her breast cancer diagnosis.  The 43-year-old actress, who played Topanga Lawrence on the beloved coming-of-age sitcom, revealed the news on the Aug. 19 episode of "Pod Meets World," the podcast she hosts with fellow "Boy Meets World" co-stars Rider Strong and Will Friedle.  "So, I would like to share something with our listeners, something that Rider and Will were actually two of the first people I told the news to," Fishel said at the top of the episode. The catalyst for drinking less, or not at all, is unique for each individual but can range from physical health reasons to mental clarity.  The topic and trend was recently highlighted on the newest season of "Emily in Paris," in which the title character explains that mostly Gen Z and millennials who adopt a wellness approach to their relationship with alcohol, though perhaps not fully sober, have started to explore not drinking.  "You might not be 100% sober, but you are interested in drinking less," Hilary Sheinbaum, author of the "Going Dry" workbook and guide to drinking less, told "Good Morning America." Ukraine has reportedly destroyed a third and last key bridge in an area of Russia's Kursk region, according to Russian military bloggers, inflicting a potentially significant blow on Moscow's struggling efforts to push back Ukraine's incursion there.  Ukraine and Russia have not officially confirmed the bridge has been destroyed.  The destruction of the third bridge over the Seym river at Karyzh would mean Russian troops on a broad stretch of the border beyond the river would now largely cut off, according to military analysts tracking the conflict. A group with ties to former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, which has spent millions targeting Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz ahead of his congressional primary this week, concedes that the MAGA firebrand will likely win big on Tuesday -- but those close to the group say their efforts will extend beyond that race and claim they have put a dent in Gaetz's long-rumored plans to run for statewide office.  The effort marks the latest chapter in the ongoing feud between the Florida congressman and the former speaker, whose allies at the Freedom Patriots PAC have spent $3 million supporting Gaetz's Republican primary opponent, former Navy pilot Aaron Dimmock, by attacking Gaetz -- saturating his district with ads that revive past allegations, including accusations that Gaetz paid a minor for sex, and highlighting his past friendship with former Florida tax collector Joel Greenberg, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison for sex trafficking and other crimes. For much of the 2024 campaign, President Joe Biden could easily see himself taking the stage at the Democratic National Convention to accept the party's nomination -- a victory lap as he sought a second term in the White House.  It comes after a rapid shuffle catapulted Vice President Kamala Harris to the top of the ticket as Biden exited the race amid Democrats' concerns about his age and ability to campaign reached a boiling point.  "This is extraordinary in a lot of ways in politics because sitting presidents don't often turn over the reins," said Jim Kessler, co-founder of the center-left think tank Third Way. Democrats are jubilant, preparing for a political party this week as they descend on Chicago for their convention.  In just a short time, Vice President Kamala Harris has energized her party as its de facto presidential nominee, riding a fawning social media wave and polling boost over President Joe Biden's numbers.  Democrats are "more hopeful than I've seen them in a long time, more enthusiastic and energized than I've seen them in a long time, nervous because they remember 2016," said former Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala., a Harris ally, recalling Hillary Clinton's campaign versus Trump. Lowering health care costs will be a central theme at the Democratic National Convention this week, campaign and convention officials said on Monday, with Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont confirmed as one notable program speaker set to focus upon the issue -- specifically on "lowering Rx drug prices" and "taking on Big Pharma."  Each night "will bring the story of the Democratic party and our nominees to the American people," convention officials have said, and will help to further introduce Vice President Kamala Harris, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz and their agenda to the nation. After nearly two years of House Republicans vowing to investigate President Joe Biden and his family's business dealings -- while repeatedly falling short in substantiating their most significant claims -- the House Judiciary, Oversight, and Ways and Means Committees on Monday released a nearly 300-page impeachment inquiry report filled with familiar allegations against the president, who has already announced he will not seek a second term.  The report, released on the first day of the Democratic National Convention and the morning of the day the president is slated to speak, rehashes many of the allegations Republicans previously made against President Biden while alleging that they have uncovered "impeachable conduct." A 183-foot sailboat carrying 22 people sank early on Monday off the coast of the Italian island of Sicily following stormy weather in the area, killing at least one passenger, according to Italian officials.  Members of the coast guard have rescued 15 passengers, but six are still missing, according to the coast guard and a local port authority.  At least one American is believed to be among those still missing, with British and Canadian citizens also unaccounted for, the coast guard said in a statement. One man was killed and seven others were injured in a shooting in Baltimore late Sunday night, police said.  Several firearms were found at the scene of the shooting on the 1300 block of Spring Street when police arrived after 8 p.m., Baltimore Police Commissioner Richard Worley said at a press conference.  "There was a gathering over on Spring Street, and at some point, it looks like multiple people opened fire, and we end up with eight people shot and one deceased," Worley said, as reported by ABC News' Baltimore affiliate WMAR. Ernesto was upgraded to a Category 1 hurricane on Sunday night, with the National Hurricane Center warning of dangerous conditions for East Coast beaches.  The hurricane -- which over the past week has caused major power outages and flooding in Puerto Rico and Bermuda -- is out over the Atlantic, with maximum sustained winds up to 75 mph.  It made landfall in Bermuda early on Saturday, dumping 7 to 9 inches of rain and flooding parts of the island. A Georgia sheriff's deputy was shot and killed Saturday night while responding to a call about a domestic dispute, officials said.  Paulding County Sheriff Gary Gulledge identified the deceased deputy as Brandon Cunningham, a 30-year-old father of two.  "Tonight, we've lost a hero," Gulledge said. Pro-Palestinian voices both inside and outside the Democratic National Convention plan to make sure their complaints are heard at this week's gathering in Chicago, starting with a major march on Monday.  In addition to the tens of thousands who plan to protest near the site, 30 delegates elected to represent the "uncommitted" movement will be inside the convention advocating an anti-war agenda. A driver could face a possible murder charge after he allegedly struck and killed an innocent bystander on a sidewalk in Houston early Sunday while attempting to mow down his domestic partner, according to police.  The incident unfolded around 3 a.m. after patrol officers in the city's Midtown area responded to what they initially thought was a gunshot and found the mortally injured victim on the sidewalk, Robert Klementich, a spokesperson for the Houston Police Department, said during a news conference.  Witnesses, including the alleged intended target, told police the suspect and his domestic partner were involved in an altercation at a nightclub and left the establishment, Klementich said. The Ukrainian military destroyed a bridge inside Russia that had been critically important for carrying Russian supplies, marking the second such bridge destroyed within days, the Ukrainian Air Force said Sunday.  The bridge had crossed the river Seym in the Kursk region, the area in western Russia where Ukrainian forces have been carrying out a large-scale ground incursion.  Ukraine said last week it controlled some 80 settlements in Russia. A voter guide falsely purporting to show a slate of endorsements by the local Republican party hit mailboxes in St. John's County, sowing confusion just as the primary was about to kick off this month.  The latest salvo in what many say is already an overheated election cycle, the incident has brought attention to an intra-party slugfest being waged inside the local GOP, amid a fight for the future of how -- and how fast -- development should proceed in the area around historic St. Augustine.  "I saw the card, and I'm like, this is a real issue," St. John's County GOP Chair Denver Cook told ABC News. When a mob of Israeli settlers started attacking their village in the West Bank, Moaweya Seddeh said his two daughters, aged 6 and 2, were sitting in the front room, drinking juice, doing what young kids do.  One villager, Ahmad Seddeh called the violence on Jit a "savage attack." Vice President Kamala Harris will set out what Democratic officials are touting as a "bold vision for America's future" at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago next week, as her campaign looks to maintain the momentum that has so irked former President Donald Trump.  The Democratic National Convention Committee on Sunday released a list of speakers for the Chicago event, which will run from Monday to Thursday.  Each day will have a dedicated theme, bullet-pointing Harris' presidential pitch to voters.