The Indianapolis Colts wanted Green Bay Packers receiver Christian Watson while discussing a trade involving disgruntled running back Jonathan Taylor, per Adam Schefter of ESPN, but the Packers “never considered dealing Watson” and only offered draft picks for Taylor during what is considered “initial discussions.” According to Schefter, a trade involving the Packers, Colts and Taylor “did not get close.” Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported the Packers offered two “mid-round picks” for Taylor but trade talks involving the Colts are now over with the regular season starting. Watson, the Packers’ second-round pick in 2022, scored nine total touchdowns during his rookie season, including eight over Green Bay’s final eight games. His numbers over the final half of the season suggest Watson could soon become one of the NFL’s star receivers. The Colts also wanted receiver Jaylen Waddle in trade talks with the Miami Dolphins, suggesting the team’s desire to get a standout young receiver for Taylor but also highlighting how unreasonable the Colts were in attempting to find realistic compensation. The Packers may have explored the idea of adding Taylor, an All-Pro at the NFL level who starred at the University of Wisconsin, but including Watson in a hypothetical trade would have never made sense for the Packers as the team transitions into the Jordan Love era. Watson will miss Sunday’s season opener against the Chicago Bears with a hamstring injury. Taylor remains on the physically unable to perform list and will miss at least the first four games of the 2023 season. Read all the best Packers coverage at the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel and Packers Wire.
 Read all the best Packers coverage at the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel and Packers Wire. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Packers Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		  





 
				© Copyright Packers Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		