 
Don't have an account?
Gain Access Now
 Receive free daily analysis  
Already have an account? Log In
  Indianapolis Colts running back Jonathan Taylor had high expectations entering last season, but he failed to achieve the success that he had in 2021. He also played only 11 games in the last campaign as he was sidelined due to an ankle injury. The Colts had a disastrous season and failed to make the playoffs, which ultimately helped them get the fourth overall pick in the 2023 NFL Draft. Taylor will now play with a new quarterback in the form of Anthony Richardson, and it will be fascinating to see how the duo will perform. However, ahead of the new season, there is still an issue pertaining to the 24-year-old running back. He isn't participating in the Colts' minicamp as he is still recovering from the ankle surgery that he had last season.  Here in Indy for Day 1 of #Colts mandatory minicamp. Jonathan Taylor, Josh Downs and Michael Pittman Jr. all here but not participating: pic.twitter.com/gj2gtHxkrQ   Jonathan Taylor is confident about being healthy by the time the training camp starts next month. This is great news for all the Colts fans and fantasy managers who have him in their dynasty league lineup. The running back didn't have a great season last year, but he is bound to bounce back. In the 11 games which he played last season, Taylor had 192 carries for 861 yards and scored just four rushing touchdowns. He also had 28 receptions for 143 yards with no receiving touchdowns. This was a huge letdown for a player who was extremely high on many people's lists.  #Colts running back Jonathan Taylor says the goal is for him to be good to go for the first day of training camp. Adds there’s a lot of good energy around the team right now. pic.twitter.com/0gbpjlWLnJ   Taylor was the 41st overall pick in the 2020 NFL Draft and he will be an unrestricted free agent next year. He is optimistic about signing a new deal with the Colts, as the star RB has expressed his desire to retire with the franchise. The situation with Saquon Barkley's contract in New York has been pretty bad, which is why the Colts would hope to seal a deal with Taylor as quickly as possible.  Update: The #Colts and RB Jonathan Taylor have had talks about a new contract and he's hoping to land an extension before the season starts.Taylor: "Hopefully they can see the value,”Taylor had 2,171 total yards in 2021 with 20 touchdowns but missed time to injury in 2022.… pic.twitter.com/s7dF9k5ATO More Fantasy Football Analysis
Must-Have Tight Ends for Fantasy Football Drafts - Trey McBride, Jake Ferguson, more

Late-Round League Winners for Fantasy Football (2024)

Running Back Fantasy Football Sleepers for PPR Leagues - 2024 Draft Targets

Early-Round Fantasy Football Wide Receiver Landmines to Avoid in 2024

Undervalued, Overvalued Sophomores: Fantasy Football Predictions for Second-Year Players

DraftKings Best Ball Rankings Fantasy Football (2024)

Later-Round Running Back Fliers for Fantasy Football Drafts

2024 Fantasy Football Rankings (Preseason)

Must-Have Middle-Round Picks for Fantasy Football Drafts - Tyjae Spears, Pat Freiermuth, more

Four Must-Have Fantasy Football Quarterbacks For 2024
 Our goal is to put out the highest-quality content and tools. Ads help us pay RotobBaller's award-winning writers as much as possible they are vital to the site's operations and team. We would appreciate your support by either turning off your adblocker or signing up for our ad-free subscription tier.Thanks for being a reader! For just $0.83/month, get an ad-free experience and access to RotoBaller's VIP Discord Chat Community If you can't subscribe, please consider turning off your adblocker for RotoBaller.com