Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	December 05, 2022   	
				         French technology company Thales has partnered with FinTech Handsome to develop a payment solution that protects visually impaired people from fraud. The innovative card vocalises the amount of each transaction before its validation.
To benefit from it, Voice Payment Card users have to install an app on their mobile phone, which is uniquely associated with their card. Each time users make a payment; the app vocalises the amount of the transaction before letting users validate it with their secret code.
The Thales Voice Payment Card works as a connected device that gets the amount from the point of sales terminal and communicates it to the app via Bluetooth. The customer can then hear the information either through the phone’s speaker or through earphones.
First revealed in September, the technology has already been certified by Visa and Mastercard. This solution will be commercialized soon by several banks, convinced of its interest. The aim is to bring autonomy and convenience to visually impaired people by protecting them against fraud or mistakes made at shops.
Bertrand Knopf, Vice President Banking and Payment Services at Thales said, “We know innovation has the potential to solve a multitude of issues. That is why, with the support of Handsome and based on Thales’ key expertise in developing secure and convenient payment solutions, we decided to tackle concerns faced by blind and visually impaired people. Since then, it appeared that the solution has proven to be useful for other disabilities. All in all, we are thrilled to see our innovations contribute to building more sustainable and responsible payment solutions.”
Thales, a global tech firm, provides its customers in defense, aeronautics, space, transport, and digital identity and security domains with solutions, services, and products. Handsome is a French Fintech, specialised in inclusive solutions for people with disabilities.
 French technology company Thales has partnered with FinTech Handsome to develop a payment solution that protects visually impaired people from fraud. The innovative card vocalises the amount of each transaction before its validation. To benefit from it, Voice Payment Card users have to install an app on their mobile phone, which is uniquely associated with their card. Each time users make a payment; the app vocalises the amount of the transaction before letting users validate it with their secret code. The Thales Voice Payment Card works as a connected device that gets the amount from the point of sales terminal and communicates it to the app via Bluetooth. The customer can then hear the information either through the phone’s speaker or through earphones. First revealed in September, the technology has already been certified by Visa and Mastercard. This solution will be commercialized soon by several banks, convinced of its interest. The aim is to bring autonomy and convenience to visually impaired people by protecting them against fraud or mistakes made at shops. Bertrand Knopf, Vice President Banking and Payment Services at Thales said, “We know innovation has the potential to solve a multitude of issues. That is why, with the support of Handsome and based on Thales’ key expertise in developing secure and convenient payment solutions, we decided to tackle concerns faced by blind and visually impaired people. Since then, it appeared that the solution has proven to be useful for other disabilities. All in all, we are thrilled to see our innovations contribute to building more sustainable and responsible payment solutions.” Thales, a global tech firm, provides its customers in defense, aeronautics, space, transport, and digital identity and security domains with solutions, services, and products. Handsome is a French Fintech, specialised in inclusive solutions for people with disabilities. December 05, 2022 December 05, 2022 July 19, 2024 Card Payment Solutions Today  Today  Today  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
