RLJE announced today it has acquired North American rights to “Muzzle,” an action thriller starring Aaron Eckhart, from Highland Film Group.  Directed by John Stalberg Jr. (“Crypto”) and based on a script by Carlyle Eubank (“The Signal”) from a story by Eubank and Stalberg Jr., the film is set to debut in theaters and will be made available on all rental platforms on Sept. 29. RLJE is a business unit of AMC Networks. It specializes in genre fare such as the Kurt Russell western “Bone Tomahawk” and the Nicolas Cage revenge thriller “Mandy.” More from Variety 'Ambush' Review: Movie Stars Steal Foot Soldiers' Valor Organic Media Launches Trio of U.S. Thrillers at FilMart 'Wander' Review: An Energized Aaron Eckhart Goes Down a Murky Conspiracy Wormhole “’Muzzle’is a fully charged ride led by a gripping performance from Aaron Eckhart,” said RLJE Film Chief Acquisitions Officer Mark Ward, “We can’t wait to unleash the film to audiences this fall.” “We are thrilled to have Mark and the outstanding team at RLJE come on board to distribute ‘Muzzle.’ They are the perfect partner to introduce this exciting action-packed thriller to audiences in the U.S,” said Highland Film Group CEO Arianne Fraser. “’Muzzle’ is an intense and compelling actioner full of twists and turns – we are so proud to be a part of this fantastic project!” added Highland Film Group COO Delphine Perrier. Eckhart star as LAPD K-9 officer Jake Rosser who has just witnessed the shocking murder of his dedicated partner by a mysterious assailant. Blocked by Internal Affairs, muzzled by his own superiors from finding the shooter’s identity, Jake resolves to go rogue and partners with “Socks”, a violent K-9. Together, the pair works to unravel a vast conspiracy. The ensemble also includes Stephen Lang (“Avatar”), Diego Tinoco (“On My Block”), Penelope Mitchell (“Star Trek: Picard”) and Kyle Smithson (“The Lost and the Brave”). The film is produced by Broken Open Pictures’ David Frigerio, Stalberg Jr., Ford Corbett, and BD Gunnell. Highland Film Group is handling international sales. The deal was negotiated by Ward for RLJE and Fraser for Highland Film Group Best of Variety Emmy Predictions: TV Movie - Sci-Fi Prequel 'Prey' Brings Jhane Myers, First Indigenous Woman Nominated for Producing, and She Could Win ‘90 Day Fiancé': Which Couples Are Still Together and Who Got Divorced? Oscars Predictions: Best Actress - Margot Robbie's 'Barbie' Performance Is Worthy 'Kenough' for Awards Consideration, but Will Voters Agree? Sign up for Variety’s Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.