MIAMI and DUBLIN, Ireland and SINGAPORE, March  27, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Fly Leasing Limited ("Fly Leasing"), a subsidiary of SASOF V which is managed by an affiliate of Carlyle Aviation Partners Ltd., today announced that it will release financial results for the fourth quarter of 2022 on March 31, 2023, and host a conference call on April 17, at 9:00 a.m EDT. The conference call will be posted on the reporting site hosted by iDeals and a replay will be available on the platform for two weeks following the call's completion. To view the full call notification, review the quarterly financial results and participate in the conference call, please log onto the iDeals reporting site at: https://www4.idealsvdr.com/v3/Fly_Financials_Reporting. Instructions for new iDeals users are below. Using the iDeals Reporting Site: If you are a current or potential investor, or research analyst, please follow the below instructions to receive access to the reporting site and view the most recent notification: 1) Please send an email to FLYinquiries@carlyle.aero to request data room access. Once your request has been processed, you will receive an email from the iDeals platform with a link to "Enter Data Room." 2) Click on the "Enter Data Room" link and follow the prompts to set up your profile and establish security preferences. 3) Upon completing set-up, you will be directed to the data room located at the following link: https://www4.idealsvdr.com/v3/Fly_Financials_Reporting For technical assistance, please email FLYinquiries@carlyle.aero. About Fly Leasing LimitedFly Leasing Limited is a global aircraft leasing company with a fleet of modern and fuel-efficient commercial jet aircraft. Fly Leasing Limited leases its aircraft under multi-year operating lease contracts to a diverse group of airlines throughout the world. About Carlyle Aviation PartnersCarlyle Aviation Partners is the commercial aviation investment and servicing arm of Carlyle's $146 billion Global Credit platform. It is a multi-strategy aviation investment manager that seeks to capitalize on its extensive technical knowledge, in-depth industry expertise and long-standing presence in the aviation sector. As of December 31, 2022, it has a team of more than 110 employees and offices in the US, Ireland and Singapore. For more information, visit www.carlyle.aero. About CarlyleCarlyle CG is a global investment firm with deep industry expertise that deploys private capital across three business segments: Global Private Equity, Global Credit and Global Investment Solutions. With $373 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2022, Carlyle's purpose is to invest wisely and create value on behalf of its investors, portfolio companies and the communities in which we live and invest. Carlyle employs more than 2,100 people in 29 offices across five continents. Further information is available at www.carlyle.com. Follow Carlyle on Twitter @OneCarlyle. Contacts: InvestorsJordan Sulkin786-476-2388jordans@carlyle.aero Carlyle Aviation Partners MediaKristen Greco(212) 813-4763kristen.greco@carlyle.comCarlyle © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.