Analysts fell to the sidelines weighing in on Selective Insurance Group (SIGI – Research Report) and Blackstone Group (BX – Research Report) with neutral ratings, indicating that the experts are neither bullish nor bearish on the stocks. Selective Insurance Group (SIGI) BMO Capital analyst Michael Zaremski  maintained a Hold rating on Selective Insurance Group yesterday and set a price target of $90.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $94.72, close to its 52-week high of $98.80. According to TipRanks.com, Zaremski is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 12.6% and a 71.8% success rate. Zaremski covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as American International Group, Marsh & Mclennan Companies, and W. R. Berkley Corporation. Currently, the analyst consensus on Selective Insurance Group is a Hold with an average price target of $95.00, representing a 1.4% upside. In a report issued on January 24, Bank of America Securities also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $98.00 price target.
		  See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Blackstone Group (BX) In a report released yesterday, Rufus Hone  from BMO Capital maintained a Hold rating on Blackstone Group, with a price target of $92.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $100.03. According to TipRanks.com, Hone is a 2-star analyst with an average return of -0.6% and a 54.5% success rate. Hone covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Apollo Global Management, Ares Management, and Carlyle Group. Blackstone Group has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $102.21, which is a 2.5% upside from current levels. In a report issued on January 26, JMP Securities also maintained a Hold rating on the stock.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks