Destiny 2 Destiny 2 players believed there would be a secret exotic quest later in Season of the Deep, given that the only exotic weapons so far have been from the season pass and the dungeon. Well, they were right, and the quest started yesterday. It is uh, something. The quest has begun by asking players to catch a specific exotic fish that has just been released into the wild. I thought it was a bug or something that only one type of exotic fish had been released before this, but it appears it was all part of a fish master plan. So what do you do? Step 1: You need to catch a Whispering Mothcarp Exotic Fish. I believe this can only drop from the Throne World fishing spot. This is…less than ideal since Exotic Fish has about a 1% drop rate. It took me 40 minutes of max Fishing Frenzy fishing and probably 90 bait to get my Mothcarp. Destiny 2 Step 2: You have to go turn in your Whispering Mothcarp to the fish tank in the HELM. This will likely get you an exotic or shard or something, but also something called a Broken Blade of Strife. Step 3: You need to take this down into a Deep Dive, and in the first bubble underwater section, find a Thrall statue that you have probably seen a bunch of times before. Don’t go down too far, and just wander around and go through a little tunnel-like space, look down and it’ll be there. Deposit the Broken Blade, the statue will glow red and Xivu Arath will yell at you. Destiny 2 And for this week, that’s it. There are likely going be two other exotic fish and the two other fishing locations over the next two weeks, and those will go in statues at the other levels of the Deep Dive. I’m not sure how this ends, but the final boss room of Deep Dives has Thrall statues too, so I’m guessing something will take place in there. I am…not all that enthused about this process. I was tired of fishing after about three days when the novelty wore off and you’re just sitting there, waiting for a line to glow every 15 seconds or so, and getting garbage 95% of the time. Then, your fishing is routinely interrupted by public events so you have to wait until you can start the whole process over (though weirdly, I fished for 40 minutes straight in the Throne World this time without a public event). Fishing was a fun “haha Destiny has fishing now!” gag, but now it’s not really option, and the game is asking us to stand around for 30-60+ minutes per week to catch a fish with a 1% drop rate so we can get an exotic that isn’t available any other. Maybe what happens after these first three steps is fun, but this sure isn’t! Anyway, good luck out there, you’ll need it. Follow me on Twitter, YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Subscribe to my free weekly content round-up newsletter, God Rolls. Pick up my sci-fi novels the Herokiller series and The Earthborn Trilogy.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.