Chelsea news: Catch all the latest headlines from Stamford Bridge including updates on Reece James' illness, N'Golo Kante's return from injury and a major claim made by Roberto De Zerbi on Moises Caicedo It is matchday and perhaps for the first time in some while there is some excitement ahead of a Chelsea game.  Over the last few months, results have been disappointing for the Blues but victories against Leeds and Borussia Dortmund make today's clash against Leicester one to look forward too. However, Graham Potter has been dealt some fresh fitness concerns ahead of the game, with Reece James set to be a notable absentee. There looks to be some positive news on the injury front, with the Chelsea head coach confirming when N'Golo Kante will make his return from injury.  Away from the pitch, previous transfer target Moises Caicedo was discussed by Brighton boss Roberto De Zerbi following his failed January move. With that said, stay with us throughout the day on football.london as we bring you all the latest news as the Blues return to action against Leicester this afternoon. Pick your team to face Leicester below Graham Potter issued a glowing review of Mykhailo Mudryk following Chelsea's win over Leicester City. After a several games out of the limelight, the 22-year-old impressed at the King Power Stadium and marked his return with an assist. "He'll get better and better," the Chelsea boss said. "He's a young player that hasn't that much experience, so each game he'll get better and better.  "His attitude is fantastic, he wants to help the team and work with the team. I'm delighted he got an assist and helped us." Wesley Fofana has hilariously responded to an explicit video on social media which captured a brutal chant. In the video, Leicester City fans were heard singing a new song about the Chelsea defender to the tune of 'Hey Baby' by DJ Ötzi. The song in question which has gone viral on Twitter goes: "Wesleyyyy, Wesley Fofanaaaa, ooh aah, I wanna' knooooooow why you're such a ****!" Fofana saw the funny side of the song by quote retweeting post with two love-heart-eyed emojis. His tweet, which essentially mocks the Leicester fan on social media has, as it stands, managed to garner nearly ten times as many likes. Paul Merson has compared Kai Havertz to Dennis Bergkamp for the way in which the Chelsea star scored against Leicester City. Enzo Fernandez scooped the ball over the Foxes' backline to find the German, who had lost his marker.  Then, on the volley, he lobbed Danny Ward, leaving the goalkeeper rooted to the spot. Merson was left in awe of Havertz's 'unbelievable goal'.  As quoted by Football Daily, the former Arsenal midfielder told Sky Sports: "What a goal! Kai Havertz has just got an unbelievable goal of the highest level. "The ball has come to Fernandez; Fernandez has scooped the ball over the top to Havertz… and he just lobs it over the keeper. Bergkamp-eqsue for Holland against England many years ago." Chelsea supporters have consoled Mykhailo Mudryk on social media after VAR ruled out his first goal for Chelsea. Enzo Fernandez threaded the Ukraine international in behind the Leicester City defence with only Danny Ward standing in his way. He galloped towards goal before slotting the ball into the bottom left-hand corner. Mudryk wheeled away in celebration before throwing himself into a knee slide by the corner flag, reminiscent of Didier Drogba. Just moments later, he was ruled offside and his goal was chalked off. Chelsea fans quickly flooded to social media to console the youngster. Gary Lineker has been pictured arriving at the King Power Stadium ahead of Chelsea's match against Leicester. The Match of the Day presenter is in attendance for this afternoon's clash after being controversially axed by the BBC due to criticising the government's use of language towards migrants.  The moment @GaryLineker arrived the King Power ahead of Leicester v Chelsea.Yesterday, Lineker was removed from his Match of the Day duties on the BBC. pic.twitter.com/AHA8foW3V4 He brings pace and power that's going to be important. He gives a different dimension... He's a young player that has been fighting to get in the team. He's ready to help so a good time for him with Raheem unavailable. Bettinelli, Badiashile, Pulisic, Chalobah, Zakaria, Ziyech, Gallagher, Chukwuemeka, Madueke. Chelsea XI: Kepa; Fofana, Koulibaly, Cucurella; Loftus-Cheek, Fernandez, Kovacic, Chilwell; Mudryk, Havertz, Felix. Chelsea manager Graham Potter has identified the one thing he believes is most important for any football club to thrive.  Speaking to the club prior to today’s trip to Leicester City, the former Brighton boss believes the "connection between the team and the fans" is crucial. This comes after the Blues triumphed against Borussia Dortmund in midweek to progress to the Champions League quarter-finals. Read the full story here. Graham Potter has a number of selection dilemmas for this afternoon's match against Leicester. These include the question as to who replaces the ill Reece James, along with a big decision over whether Mykhailo Mudryk gets reinstated into the side. Check out three possible line-ups here. Football Focus and Final Score will not air on Saturday as they are shelved by BBC bosses amid a mass boycott in solidarity with Gary Lineker. Read the full story here. Pundits Paul Merson and Chris Sutton disagree over how they see the result at the King Power Stadium panning out, however.  While Sutton has more confidence in Graham Potter’s side, Merson didn’t believe the Blues will return to west London with all three points. While the former Arsenal player predicted a 1-1 draw, Sutton suggested Chelsea would edge the contest 1-0. Read the full story here. Football Focus presenter Alex Scott has confirmed the BBC show will not go ahead today. I made a decision last night that even though I love doing football focus and we have had an incredible week winning an SJA award that it just doesn’t feel right going ahead with the show today. Hopefully I will be back in the chair next week… Back on the road for #LeiChe! pic.twitter.com/vkawDj7Oul football.london has predicted how Chelsea will line-up when they visit Leicester City later today. Predicted Chelsea side: Kepa; Fofana, Koulibaly, Cucurella; Azpilicueta, Enzo, Zakaria, Chilwell; Madueke, Havertz, Felix. Read the full explanations here. The Professional Footballers’ Association have released a statement ahead of today's set of Premier League games. This follows yesterday's news that Gary Lineker was forced to 'step down' from his Match of the Day hosting duties. leading to the fellow pundits and presenters refusing to appear on the BBC programme. pic.twitter.com/BrJqt4ZiuG Here is the full list of players Graham Potter can choose his matchday squad from for this afternoon's clash with Leicester City: Goalkeepers: Kepa Arrizabalaga, Marcus Bettinelli, Lucas Bergstrom. Defenders: Benoit Badiashile, Trevoh Chalobah, Ben Chilwell, Kalidou Koulibaly, Marc Cucurella, Wesley Fofana, Cesar Azpilicueta. Midfielders: Enzo Fernandez, Mateo Kovacic, Ruben Loftus-Cheek, Denis Zakaria, Conor Gallagher, Carney Chukwuemeka, Christian Pulisic, Lewis Hall. Forwards: Joao Felix, Mykhailo Mudryk, Hakim Ziyech, Kai Havertz, Noni Madueke, David Datro Fofana. Read the full story here. Graham Potter has explained how "working with perspective" is crucial in order to be successful as Chelsea head coach. "I am the same as every Chelsea fan; it's always better if you win," Potter said. "On the one hand you get criticised for showing no emotion and then when you say it is harder when you lose it becomes a real story. It's really difficult to just play a game of football at whatever level and just come home and everything is fine. "That's not to say I am a disaster zone around the family. My kids are my kids and I am very privileged and fortunate to do the job I do and am very lucky. "It's not that but clearly when you are in a job where results aren't going the way you want it becomes more difficult than when you are winning. But that's part of football, part of life, you have to work with a perspective a lot. Read the full story here. Chelsea star N'Golo Kante is closing in on a much-anticipated return to action after suffering a hamstring injury against Tottenham on August 14 which has seen him miss almost all of the 2022/23 season. The key clashes against Leeds and Borussia Dortmund came too soon for Kante but he has completed several first-team training sessions, likely meaning a matchday squad return is close.  Due to the length of his absence, Chelsea will likely manage the situation carefully, but Potter revealed on Friday when he hopes to have the 31-year-old back available. Read the full story here Graham Potter has confirmed Reece James will miss Chelsea's trip to Leicester City because of illness. James played the full 90 minutes on Tuesday as the Blues knocked Borussia Dortmund out of the Champions League but he didn't train today (Friday) and will not travel with the squad.  Potter also confirmed Raheem Sterling has a tight hamstring and is a doubt and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang will miss the game with a back problem. Read the full story here Brighton manager Roberto De Zerbi has revealed what he told Moises Caicedo after his failed transfer to Chelsea and Arsenal.  Both London clubs came in for the 21-year-old but the Seagulls remained firm on their stance he would not be for sale in the January window. In his most recent press conference, ahead of Brighton's clash with Leeds, De Zerbi was asked about his relationship with the former Independiente del Valle star and if the youngster had learned from the situation where he tried to engineer a move away. Read the full story here It is a matchday for Chelsea once again! The Blues take on Leicester at King Power Stadium in a 3pm kick off. Stay with us here on football.london throughout the day for regular updates on that game and much more from west London.