Jason Watkins, Aneurin Barnard, Poppy Gilbert and Cathy Belton take the lead in the brand new drama from Channel 5 Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters The Catch is the brand new psychological thriller from Channel 5. Based on T.M. Logan's novel of the same name, the drama starts at 9pm on Wednesday, January 25. Channel 5 viewers can tune in every Wednesday night for the next four weeks to watch the drama unfold as Jason Watkins, Aneurin Barnard, Poppy Gilbert and Cathy Belton lead the star-studded cast list.  Jason, who viewers will recognise from The Lost Honour of Christopher Jefferies, The Crown, Des and W1A, takes on the role of Ed Collier, a proud husband, father and local fisherman determined to do whatever it takes to keep his family together. Meanwhile, Welsh actor Aneurin Barnard, whose had roles in Peaky Blinders, Time, The Goldfinch and Dunkirk, plays rich, handsome younger man Ryan Wilson who enters the life of Ed's daughter Abbie Collier and threatens to take her away from him. Read more: The Catch location: Where was the Channel 5 drama filmed? Abbie is played by Poppy Gilbert, who's had roles in Chloe, Stay Close, Leonardo, and Perfect Addiction. Meanwhile, Cathy Belton plays Ed's wife Claire Collier, who viewers will recognise from Red Rock, Hidden Assets and Miss Scarlet and the Duke. Claire said of her role and the cast: "To play Claire. The challenge to play such a complex passionate woman was exciting and nourishing. When I read the script I found it had that rare combination of being a gripping thriller and a great psychological family drama.  "The emotional life of each character is very well drawn. I was all in. Also I was really interested in the journey of a family ploughing through grief, especially for Ed and Claire. I found the question and the journey of how you survive and negotiate this pain very challenging and exciting to play. "To be a part of this cast was a no brainer. It has been wonderful to play opposite such great actors as Jason, Poppy, Aneurin, and Brenda." But who else stars in The Catch? You can find the full cast list below.  Ed Collier – Jason Watkins Claire Collier – Cathy Belton Ryan Wilson – Aneurin Barnard Abbie Collier – Poppy Gilbert Phyllis Doyle – Brenda Fricker Bob Chapman – Ian Pirie Katz – Jade Jordan George – Morgan Palmeria D I Nott – Tracy Wiles Craig – Cameron Jack Pauline – Menyee Lai Wayne Pendrick – Paul Sparkes Josh – Jacob Hickey Baxter – Karl Hogan The Catch starts on Channel 5 at 9pm on Wednesday, January 25. For more showbiz and television stories sign up to our newsletter here. READ NEXT: Channel 5's The Catch: Start time, cast, location, plot and how many episodes The Catch on Channel 5: Aneurin Barnard’s roles including Peaky Blinders and Doctor Who, wife and net worth Doctor Who cast: Fans react as Welsh actor joins line-up for new series Bradley Walsh shares sweet story of how EastEnders actor introduced him to his wife 