 
Don't have an account?
Gain Access Now
 Receive free daily analysis  
Already have an account? Log In
  It finally happened! The Aaron Rodgers trade saga is done and thankfully, it will not negatively impact our enjoyment of the NFL Draft. It would’ve been awfully disappointing if we needed to hear about the updated “news” on this little drama between every couple of picks. Aaron Rodgers is finally, officially, the starting quarterback of the New York Jets. How we got here isn’t important, but what is important is deciphering just what his fantasy value is in New York and how his addition impacts Garrett Wilson. Previous Fantasy Football outlook articles based on some of the biggest NFL free agency moves this offseason: Fantasy managers shouldn’t expect any massive changes to ADPs and rankings as most sites and early drafters were operating under the premise that Rodgers has been a Jet since March, which is fair. The outcome we got on Monday was always destined to happen. Now, we can take a hard look at how the market has been handling Rodgers and Wilson as teammates in New York and determine if it has been correct.   Aaron Rodgers has been a bad man on the football field for a long time. However, he is coming off the worst statistical year of his career since becoming a starter, which makes his back-to-back MVP seasons feel a bit further away than they actually are. What fantasy managers need to determine is whether this was a sign of Father Time nipping at his heels or due to a significantly depleted group of pass-catchers and a nagging thumb injury on his throwing hand. The answer, like with most things, is likely somewhere in the middle. Rodgers is 39 years old, and he’ll turn 40 late in the 2023 season. There isn’t a lot of data on quarterbacks playing at the ages of 39 and 40 because most, if not all, do not make it this far. Due to injuries or a date with Father Time, quarterbacks rarely make it to the top of the age mountain where Rodgers currently stands. That said, even last year, Rodgers demonstrated he was still capable of playing quality football and was drastically better than the rag-tag group of signal-callers the Jets had last season. Below is a table that takes Rodgers’ worst statistical season in each passing category and compares that to the Jets’ QB room last year. Now, we get a glimpse at the kind of upgrade the very worst Aaron Rodgers has to offer. This should be fun. Now, we'll take Rodgers’ worst career seasons in all of those categories and determine what kind of overall stats he would have finished with on the same number of pass attempts as the Jets’ quarterbacks. As you can see, even if the Jets are getting the worst version of Rodgers, it still means 24 more completions, 224 more yards, and 11 more touchdowns. I want to emphasize that last part- 11 more touchdowns. For all the pass-catchers in New York, that is huge. Now, let’s assume that Rodgers is able to win round one against Father Time in 2023 and performs at a career-average rate. What would his season look like with the Jets' passing volume from 2022 compared to what the Jets actually got out of the quarterback position? We’re talking about 52 more completions, 788 more yards, and an absolutely ridiculous 24 more touchdowns. Okay, I fully admit there are absolutely zero reasons for Rodgers to put up the best statistical season of his career at 40 years old while playing for a new team for the first time in his career. But after seeing how ridiculous the previous table is, let’s just go down that road for fun, shall we? The following table is just a humorous look at how bad the Jets' quarterbacks were last season and how insanely good Rodgers can be when everything is clicking. Once again, we shouldn't expect those types of numbers from Rodgers. That table took his career-best completion percentage, touchdown rate, yards per attempt, and interception rate just for fun. However, I think it's fair to expect an Aaron Rodgers somewhere in the middle of the first two tables above, assuming the Jets' passing volume stays the same. Even if his 2023 ends up leaning more closely toward the first table, it’s still a significant upgrade from the Jets’ quarterback play last season. While you might believe the pass attempts will increase from last year now that the Jets have Rodgers, the reality is the passing volume will likely drop ever so slightly. This is because Rodgers will do a much better job of keeping his team in games and they won’t be forced to play catch-up as much as they did last season. Assuming they drop from seventh in pass attempts per game to league average, the Jets would finish with around 580 pass attempts for the year. This would likely result in a season where Rodgers finishes with around 375 completions (64.6%), 4,275 yards (7.37 YPA), 29 touchdowns (5.0%), and nine interceptions (1.5%). Let's say he chips in roughly 75 rushing yards and a sneak score, he’d finish with 280.5 fantasy points or 16.5 PPG. Last year, he would’ve finished tied with Tom Brady at QB16 with those numbers. He’s currently being drafted as the QB15, which is in line with the projection above, making him neither a player that fantasy managers should be targeting nor one that they should be avoiding. He appears to be correctly valued at this time and is best viewed as a middle-of-the-road QB2.   Garrett Wilson had an incredibly special rookie season considering the quarterback play he received. The quarterback rating statistic has its shortcomings like any singular statistic does, but it gives you an idea of how poor the Jets' quarterback play was. Among the 33 quarterbacks who qualified for this stat, the Jets' team QB rating of 75.0 ranked dead last. For perspective, Kenny Pickett (76.7), Davis Mills(78.8), Baker Mayfield (79.0), and Carson Wentz (80.2) all had higher ratings. You get the picture, it was bad. Here’s the kicker: while many will argue that Mike White and Joe Flacco were upgrades over Zach Wilson, they too were awful too! Wilson was the only Jets quarterback who qualified for the quarterback rating statistic and he finished with a 72.8. White finished with a rating of 75.7 and Flacco was at 75.2. Both numbers would’ve been last had none of their Jets’ teammates qualified. So, had Flacco or White qualified, all three Jets would’ve been at the very bottom of the list, the very last three on the list. At this point, we've established just how bad the quarterback play was last year. Now, let's talk about what Wilson managed to do in spite of it. As shown in the table, despite the Jets’ quarterbacks' efforts to limit his production, Wilson had an outstanding rookie season. He was an absolute stud from day one and if he had just an average quarterback instead of the league’s worst, Wilson might have had one of the best rookie seasons in recent memory. Although Wilson only had four touchdowns, which tied for 37th among receivers, he had the sixth most total targets and the ninth most red zone targets, as illustrated above. In fact, his utilization in the red zone was even better. Wilson was tied for sixth with 10 targets inside the 10-yard line and tied for ninth with 11 end zone targets. Given the number of total targets he received, as well as the ample red zone and end zone opportunities, it's crazy he only scored four touchdowns. So how will Rodgers impact Wilson? When we examine some of the best Packer receivers, aside from Davante Adams, I found that Greg Jennings averaged a catch rate of 60% with Rodgers and had a 15.2- yard per reception average. He scored a touchdown on 6.9% of his targets as well. Jordy Nelson had a catch rate of 65.8%, a 14.3-yard per reception average, and a touchdown rate of 8.2%. James Jones had a catch rate of 60%, a 14.4-yard per reception average, and a touchdown rate of 8.2%. Randall Cobb had a catch rate of 69.6%, a yard-per-reception average of 11.9, and a touchdown rate of 6.1%. Now, let's consider the following scenario: Wilson has a 25% target share on the 580 attempts we projected for Rodgers earlier. This is the same target share he had last year. We’ll assume he catches 60% of his passes (up from 56% last year), similar to Jennings and Jones, and finishes with a 14.0-yard per reception average (up from 13.2 yards last year). We’ll also give him a 5% touchdown rate, which is up from 2.7% last year but still well below the aforementioned quartet. That 12.2 PPG average would have finished as the WR15. Now, let’s say Wilson has a catch rate of 62.5%, which is in between Jones/Jennings and Nelson, and we increase the touchdown rate to 6%. We’ll keep the same 14 YPR. This 13.3 PPG average would’ve finished as the WR10 last year. For our final scenario, let’s give Wilson a 65% catch rate, similar to Jordy Nelson, and the same 8.0% touchdown rate. What happens then? That 14.5 PPG average would’ve finished as the WR9, just behind CeeDee Lamb. This range of outcomes feels the most realistic for Wilson in 2023 with Rodgers at the helm, WR9 – WR15. Currently, he's being drafted around WR10, which feels a touch high because there’s not much room for upside. You’re close to acquiring him at his realistic ceiling. However, with a player coming off a rookie season like the one he had and having just received a substantial quarterback upgrade, that’s likely to happen. Fantasy managers don’t need to avoid or target Wilson at this range either, very similar to Rodgers. His price point is, for the most part, fair market value, and he’s someone fantasy managers should draft accordingly. It may be a touch high, but considering his age, upside, and quarterback upgrade, we’re fortunate that his cost is still within his realistic range of outcomes. One of the stalwarts of fantasy football over the past decade has been Travis Kelce, who enters his age-35 season in 2024. Kelce has been no worse than a top-three tight end in full-PPR formats in every season since 2016. This run of dominance is unmatched and the future Hall of Famer is still considered... Read More Every fantasy manager wants the best fantasy quarterback on their roster. After all, quarterbacks will be one of your team's highest-scoring players every week. Last year, the top seven fantasy quarterbacks (Josh Allen, Jalen Hurts, Dak Prescott, Lamar Jackson, Jordan Love, Brock Purdy, and Jared Goff) finished top-11 in total points scored in PPR formats. ... Read More The Green Bay Packers seem to have an embarrassment of riches when it comes to the wide receiver position in 2024. Sporting one of the youngest position groups of any position across the league, the Packers have drafted and developed extremely well to make their receivers a five or even six-person deep group that will... Read More In my last article, I highlighted one-man backfields to chase in 2024. In this article, I highlight four of the best backup running backs to chase in 2024. Two of these guys are probably straight “handcuff” type backups that require an injury to the starter. However, two of these guys have a legitimate shot to... Read More Welcome to my favorite article of the year -- 2024 Bold Predictions. Every NFL season is chaotic, and during the offseason, fantasy players think they know way more than they do. Embracing variance and expecting outlier outcomes is necessary to prepare for fantasy drafts. Being bold by pushing back against groupthink and taking chances where... Read More In fantasy football, we often discuss early-round players or late-round sleepers to draft, but hardly ever consider those all-important middle-round picks. In fantasy terms, we define middle-round picks as the ones made in Rounds 8-12 in a 12-team league. That means we're using Underdog ADPs of 96 to 144 at this stage as we are... Read More Check out all of RotoBaller's fantasy football rankings. Staff rankings are updated regularly for all positions and include standard formats, PPR scoring, tiered rankings and dynasty leagues. Finding value in the later rounds of fantasy football drafts can be the key to building a championship roster, especially when it comes to running backs. As the top-tier options fly off the board early, savvy managers know that hidden gems often emerge from the depths of the draft. These late-round running back fliers can... Read More Many fantasy football managers are scared to draft young players. It’s understandable as younger players can sometimes carry more risk as opposed to trusted veterans. However, many youngsters, specifically second-year players, can be vital assets to a fantasy roster. We have seen more second-year players take big leaps in recent years. Trey McBride and James... Read More The tight end position has never been as deep as it is this season. I know we say that every year, but this season just feels different. There are guys up and down the board that could make a significant impact in 2024. It's all about average draft position (ADP). A lot of these guys... Read More There's a time for drafting safe, projectable volume, and then the late rounds come and it's time to draft upside in pursuit of that potential league winner. Fantasy managers can then look for key rookies, overshadowed veterans, players returning from injuries, committee backs, and those who benefit from a coaching change, just to name a... Read More After completing an article series and identifying a breakout candidate from each NFL team, I have decided to create a starting fantasy football roster with my favorite selections. Welcome to Ellis’ All-Breakout Team. Previously, I had divided my breakouts by division and selected a player from each team. Although the term “breakout” is subjective, I... Read More So much has been going on this preseason. Frequent updates of fantasy football rankings have become an essential (and fun) task. Here are my latest fantasy football rankings updates for all positions. My overall rankings below the analysis are for PPR formats. You can also see my PPR rankings by position, Half-PPR rankings, Standard (non-PPR)... Read More Our goal is to put out the highest-quality content and tools. Ads help us pay RotobBaller's award-winning writers as much as possible they are vital to the site's operations and team. We would appreciate your support by either turning off your adblocker or signing up for our ad-free subscription tier.Thanks for being a reader! For just $0.83/month, get an ad-free experience and access to RotoBaller's VIP Discord Chat Community If you can't subscribe, please consider turning off your adblocker for RotoBaller.com