LOS ANGELES – Inside the cramped visiting manager’s office at Dodger Stadium, Aaron Boone was talking about Aaron Judge’s latest sensational catch. That's when his eyes moved to the TV set. There was Judge, on a dead run, slamming into the right field fence, late in a close game. UPDATE:Aaron Judge dealing with foot issue after incredible catch “Man,’’ said the Yankees manager, watching a replay of Judge impacting the wall with such force that the visitor’s bullpen door opened, briefly taking Judge out of the playing field. Judge staggered away, quickly relayed the ball into the infield and the Yankees held their breath again, until their captain started waving everyone back to the dugout late Saturday afternoon. “I think the fence got the most of it,’’ said Judge, after the Yankees’ 6-3 victory against the Dodgers. “Thankfully, it was at that part of the wall where the fence had some give.’’ Jake Bauers' pair of two-run homers off Dodgers starter Michael Grove and Judge's AL-leading 19th homer of the year - off reliever Shelby Miller - gave the Yanks a 5-1 lead, which Gerrit Cole nursed through six innings. Cole was also dealing with a leg cramp, forcing him out after six innings and 80 pitches, his lowest pitch-total this season. "Just one of those days, tough lineup, made me execute a lot of pitches, so we managed it well,'' said Cole, who tried to compensate by chugging water and downing bananas, but Boone wasn't going to extend his ace. So, Cole was in the cold tub, watching on TV, with the Yanks ahead 5-3 with none out and Max Muncy on first when JD Martinez drove a Michael King delivery toward the right field wall. Extending his glove up on a full sprint, Judge made the grab, "and then your heart skips a beat when the fence goes flying open,'' said Boone. The gated part of the fence caved in a bit where Judge's left shoulder connected, but Judge banged his left foot harder into the concrete lip at the wall's base, which was more of an immediate concern. That the door partially opened, "I think that saved me probably,'' said Judge. "If it was a solid wall, maybe it’s a different story.'' Yet, "I'm pretty sure the latch was closed up,'' Judge said. "I don't know how that happened.'' Judge tried to shoo Boone back to the dugout. "I just came out to tell you what a great catch it was,'' said a relieved Boone, who then retreated to debate whether Muncy was entitled to second base on a tag-up when Judge was briefly in the bullpen. "We’re the visitors,'' Boone grumbled. "Not our fault (Judge's force) knocked the wall down.'' The Yanks lost that challenge, but won for the first time since Tuesday, putting themselves in position to win a series Sunday afternoon. "I wasn’t too happy with Muncy getting second base,'' said Judge. "I’ve still got an issue with that.'' Anyway, score another victory over an outfield wall for Judge, who earlier this week robbed Teoscar Hernandez of a homer with a sensational catch in Seattle. "Awesome. He’s amazing,'' said Cole. "There’s some great players in this series, couple Hall of Famers on the other side as well, but he’s just on another level.'' Just off a cross-country flight, Oswaldo Cabrera crushed a ninth-inning solo homer that provided some more breathing room to a club that was, well, now breathing normally again. Despite the early exit, Cole was OK. And Judge made out far better than the fence. But watching the Yankees most irreplaceable player risk bodily harm with such a catch, does that give a manager pause? “That’s who he is, that’s how he plays. He needed to do that today,’’ Boone said of Judge, making that catch with the tying run aboard in the eighth. “That’s a game-on-the-line situation and he’s going to make that play.’’ And maybe this is the year Judge finally gets a Gold Glove award to put near last year’s MVP trophy. “What kind of amazes me the most, he makes a lot of great plays but he’s just so solid all around,’’ said Cole. “There’s not a weak part of his game. He can make an outstanding play and he can make the plays that he’s got to make every single day. “For being such a dynamic offensive player, it’s just - gosh, what a blessing to have him on my team.’’ Judge remained in the game, having already belted his 19th homer of the year, off reliever Shelby Miller.