There certainly has been some great fishing in the area — and that's no April Fool's. Snapper fishing offshore, pompano along the beach, snook and trout inshore and bass in the freshwater have all been energizing anglers all week long. It's been a good week to wet a line for sure. Temperatures may feel more like summer than the first weekend of April, but the fish have been responding to live baits. Topwater plugs early in the day will get bites from trout. Casts to the sand bar parallel to the beaches will catch pompano as they head back to the north. Spin class:ORCA of Vero Beach gets gift to help with Indian River Lagoon scientific projects Bridge too far:Coast Guard OKs three-week closing of St. Lucie River bridge while Brightline makes repairs Lagoon day:Candid observations: Here's what I saw during a three-hour tour on the Indian River Lagoon Closures & regulations changes in effect: Anglers are reminded about these fishery harvest closures currently underway and ones about to begin and end. Lobster: Season closed April 1. Two day sport season (mini-season) opens July 26-27, 2023. Regular season opens Aug. 6. Grouper: Harvest opens May 1, 2023. Includes gag grouper, red grouper, black grouper, scamp, yellowfin grouper, yellowmouth, coney, graysby, red hind & rock hind. Harvest closes Jan. 1, 2024. Hogfish: Harvest opens May 1, 2023. Harvest closed from Nov. 1, 2023 to April 30, 2024. Cobia: New bag and size limits for state waters. Bag limit: Two fish per vessel. Size limit: 36 inches fork length. Snook: Harvest opened Feb. 1. One fish bag limit, 28-32 inches, snook stamp required.. Spotted seatrout:  Harvest open as of Jan. 1 in Volusia, Brevard, Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin & Palm Beach counties. Harvest closes November and December 2023. Redfish: Harvest of redfish is banned in the Indian River Lagoon and Mosquito Lagoon beginning Sept. 1. FWC will re-evaluate later in the year. Alligator: Hunt season open Aug. 15-Nov. 1. Permits required. Dolphin: New fishing regulations began May 1, 2022 for state waters. Bag limit is now five fish per day per angler; Vessel limit is now 30 fish per day. Captain and crew may not be included in limit. Tilefish: Harvest is open as of Jan. 1. Bass: Bass at Headwaters Lake will soon become all catch-and-release. For complete fishing regulations in Florida go to MyFWC.com. The 40th annual Vero Beach Boat Show will take place Saturday and Sunday at Riverside Park in Vero Beach. Come see more than a dozen local dealers and custom boat builders, kayaks, paddleboards, canoes, offshore fishing machines, cruisers, bay boats, flats boats and canoes. There will be food vendors, finance and insurance specialists and boating education groups present. Show is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. Admission and parking are free. For more information go to VeroBeachBoatShow.com. Offshore: Big Easy charters Capt. Terry Wildey has been steering clients to plenty of action on kingfish in the 20-30 pound range, cobia to 35 pounds, mangrove snapper and triggerfish. Closer to Sebastian Inlet, there has been good action on large schools of large jack crevalles as the gather to spawn. Inshore: Snook fishing has been driving the fishing effort at Sebastian Inlet. Anglers can catch snook from both jetties. Last week, an angler caught a legal length gag group from the T Dock even though season for harvest is closed. The fish went back. Big jacks, tarpon, redfish and black drum are also in the inlet feeding on crabs during the outgoing tide. Freshwater: Bass fishing has been excellent at Headwaters Lake in Fellsmere. Fish from 2-5 pounds are common on wild shiners. For artificial lures, try tossing stick worms or lipless crank baits. Offshore: Fishing for mutton snapper has been excellent in 70-100 feet of water at reefs on Bethel Shoal and the Offshore Bar. Use dead sardines and long leaders to get bites. Permit have been over shallow structure off Hutchinson Island. The next few days won't be very good for reef fishing, but the bite should resume after the seas settle down. Inshore: Snook fishing has been excellent around docks along St. Lucie Village and Indian River Drive south of Fort Pierce. Wade fishers can catch redfish and trout along with snook. Tripletail can be caught on crab trap buoys and channel markers with a live shrimp. Surf: The 3rd annual Sand Spike Shootout fished over the weekend with more than 50 anglers joining in the fun. In the pompano division, Carl Christianson won with a 3 pounder beating out Nancy Sandee (2 pound 12 ounces), Tony Yannette (2 pounds 10 ounces), Alan Rosernberger and Randy Sperco. Craig Calloway won the whiting division with a 1 pound 3.6 ounce fish. Rich Timmons finished second with a 1 pound 3 ouncer. Pat Monaghan, Gary Preece and Chris Fortner rounded out the competition. Offshore: Dolphin have been caught along the current edges where the sargassum seaweed has formed mats. Troll ballyhoo along the edges. Snapper fishing for mutton snapper, mangrove snapper and lane snapper is best in 70 feet of water. Anglers are still catching cobia and kingfish in 40 feet of water. Giant jacks will hit poppers fished in the spawning schools. Inshore: Capt. Jim Walden of Night Stalker charters in Jensen Beach has been putting his clients on large trout using live bait south of Jensen Beach Causeway. Snook are also biting in the same zone. Snook are taking live baits under docks near Rocky Point, Sewall's Point and the bridges. Bass fishing has been excellent in the western and northern portions of the lake. Fish are being caught near bulrushes and lily pads on wild shiners, topwater frogs and stick worms. Ed Killer is the outdoors writer for TCPalm. Email him at ed.killer@tcpalm.com. This article originally appeared on Treasure Coast Newspapers: Florida fishing for bass, trout, dolphin, snook heats up this spring Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals.