sportsCowboys By  David MooreCowboys Insider By  David MooreCowboys Insider 6:00 AM on Apr 21, 2023 CDT The Cowboys have the 26th pick in the first round of next week’s draft. This is the second in a series exploring what position the club should consider selecting at that spot. A pedestrian performance at wide receiver behind CeeDee Lamb has some outside of the organization banging the table for the Cowboys to take a wide receiver in the first round. An argument can be made for that approach. But to elevate this position to the status of need isn’t warranted. Wait, you say. The numbers are irrefutable. Lamb had a strong season with 107 receptions for 1,359 yards and nine touchdowns. After that? Be the smartest Cowboys fan. Get the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Noah Brown and Michael Gallup combined for only 979 yards between them. The only other wideout who did anything for Dallas was veteran T.Y. Hilton, who was signed late in the season and played just three games. But one player can alter the dynamic of a position. That’s what the Cowboys did with the acquisition of Brandin Cooks. He brings order to the rotation. Cooks is the second receiver. Brown, who had never been more than a fifth receiver for the Cowboys, filled the No. 2 role last season. Brown left in free agency. The arrival of Cooks also bumps Gallup into the role of a secondary second receiver, a 2b if you will, which is a better fit for his temperament and skill set. And then there’s Jalen Tolbert. The third-round pick out of South Alabama gave the Cowboys nothing last season. But that doesn’t mean Dallas has written off his development and is ready to move on. There should be some names available at No. 26 that interest the club. Tennessee’s Jalin Hyatt has elite speed. Boston College’s Zay Flowers is quick and changes direction on a dime, traits that are valuable in the slot. TCU’s Quentin Johnston has a nice burst and finds yards after the catch. But the drop to that next plateau at receiver isn’t as dramatic as it’s been in past years. Upgrading the talent at receiver is a must. That’s why Dallas hosted so many receivers for visits in recent weeks. The Cowboys will come out of this draft with at least one receiver it can develop and work into the rotation. But the best value at that position will come in rounds two through four, not the first. Catch David Moore and Tim Cowlishaw in Cowboys Happy Hour on The Ticket (KTCK-AM 1310 and 96.7 FM) every Wednesday at 7 p.m. through the draft. Twitter: @DavidMooreDMN Find more Cowboys coverage from The Dallas Morning News here. David Moore, Cowboys Insider. David is in his 4th decade of covering sports on the DFW scene. You know what that means.
He's old.