Slack's co-founder Cal Henderson shared his thoughts about remote work in an Insider interview. He said young people in some industries may struggle if they're not with colleagues in the office. Salesforce, the software company that owns Slack, recently mandated workers come to the office. Young workers in some industries like finance and sales could struggle to be successful if they don't get the opportunity to learn alongside senior colleagues in the office, Slack's co-founder told Insider in an interview. Cal Henderson, who co-founded Slack in 2009 and is its chief technology officer, chimed in on the debate around remote working saying there are a few different reasons why major firms like Meta and Google are mandating workers to return to the office a few days a week. It's partly because some roles and industries are apprenticeship driven and "you learn by watching somebody who's more experienced than you do the job," he said. He continued: "You sit next to them, you ride along on a sales phone call, you watch a finance person put together a spreadsheet in the middle of the night – like the people who are working at Goldman Sachs. It's a very different experience if your VP isn't there in the office with you as you work overnight on something." It's harder to "replicate" this experience in "a hybrid way," he added. Salesforce, the software company that acquired Slack in 2021, planned to call employees back to the office at least three days a week despite pushing flexible working policies during the pandemic. Henderson emphasized that "in my organization, the people who come into the office most, by far, are interns," because it's their first experience of work and many are living in small apartments or flat shares. He clarified that he thinks workers who interned or were very early in their careers during the pandemic "still learned to do their jobs" and are just "as productive as anybody else." Executives and professors are divided on the topic. NYU professor Scott Galloway previously said that young people "should never be at home" if they want to be successful professionally. Elon Musk, the billionaire owner of Twitter, has strong sentiments against remote and hybrid work having previously said it's "morally wrong." In regard to Musk's comments Henderson said: "Elon Musk isn't in the office every day because he's the CEO of three companies. He can't even be in the office every other day at each of his companies." Still, "I think there are certain kinds of roles in which it's much harder to be successful unless you're able to learn from other people and those roles won't necessarily evolve anytime soon to make that not true," he said. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.