About Us Advertise PUTRAJAYA, June 12 — Five additional sports will be contested in the Malaysia Games (Sukma) 2024 in Sarawak, which are scheduled to be held from August 17 to 24, said Youth and Sports Minister Hannah Yeoh. She said the Sukma Supreme Committee meeting today decided that softball, chess, kabbadi, silambam and cricket would be the additional sports. “This is a joint decision by all the Exco members as these five sports have met the conditions, such as holding their own national junior championships. “The most important thing is that Sarawak as Sukma 2024 organisers and the National Sports Council (NSC) as organisers of Sukma 2026 in Kelantan have also agreed to their inclusion to ensure continuity,” she added. She told reporters this after chairing the Sukma Supreme Committee meeting and State Youth and Sports Development Exco coordinating meeting at the ministry building here. Hannah said the listing of these five new sports was over and above the four sports agreed to earlier by the organisers, namely boxing, muay thai, petanque and e-sports, subject to their getting the participation of at least six states, as stipulated in the Malaysia Games General Rules. Among the compulsory sports listed earlier for Sukma 2024 are aquatics (swimming and diving), weightlifting, badminton, cycling (track and road racing), gymnastics (artistic and rhythmic), golf, fencing, archery, shooting, athletics and sailing. The others are hockey, judo, table tennis, taekwondo, karate, lawn bowls, pencak silat, sepak takraw, squash, tenpin bowling, wushu, football, rugby, netball, basketball, volleyball and tennis. The Sukma meeting also decided that the 21st edition of the games will be staged in eight divisions in Sarawak, namely Kuching, Samarahan, Sri Aman, Betong, Sibu, Mukah, Bintulu and Miri, to ensure people throughout the state can get to enjoy it. However, track cycling will be held in Peninsular Malaysia. The Sukma committee also agreed to hold Para Sukma from September 21 to 28, 2024 in the Kuching and Samarahan divisions. — Bernama    