About Us Advertise   KUALA LUMPUR, July 5 — Bursa Malaysia Bhd has announced that it has assumed the Malaysian Investor Relations Association’s (Mira) role. In a statement today, Bursa Malaysia said Mira’s operations have been discontinued effective July 1, 2023. Established in 2007 by Bursa Malaysia, Mira’s primary objective was to develop and enhance the investor relations (IR) capabilities of public listed companies (PLCs) through effective communication and the cultivation of stronger relationships between PLCs and the investor community. “Over the years, Bursa Malaysia has stepped up its advocacy role, beyond that of a market regulator and influencer. This includes, among others, guiding and improving the way PLCs provide information, communicate, and interact with the investment and stakeholder communities, as well as raising PLCs’ profile and investability,” said Bursa Malaysia. To prevent redundancy and duplication of functions, the bourse said it will leverage its extensive tools and capabilities to serve as the single point of reference for IR matters. Meanwhile, the board of Mira said it is supportive of Bursa Malaysia assuming its mantle, and it is convinced that this transition would result in greater delivery of service to all stakeholders in the capital market. Bursa Malaysia chief executive officer Datuk Muhamad Umar Swift said the bourse is pleased to assume the role previously held by Mira and looks forward to expanding its efforts in advancing PLCs’ investor relations capabilities and proactiveness, to raise the PLCs’ stature and appeal to investors globally. He added that the exchange is committed to continue providing PLCs and IR practitioners with the necessary knowledge, training or workshops, and other essential resources to effectively engage with shareholders and wider stakeholders. From July 2023 onwards, investor relations practitioners or professionals in Bursa Malaysia listed PLCs, including former Mira members, can expect further capacity-building support and guidance from the exchange to enhance their skills and knowledge. Any queries can be obtained at [email protected]. — Bernama    