Slack's co-founder Cal Henderson shared his thoughts about remote work in an Insider interview. He said young people in some industries may struggle if they're not with colleagues in the office. Salesforce, the software company that owns Slack, recently mandated workers come to the office. Young workers in some industries like finance and sales could struggle to be successful if they don't get the opportunity to learn alongside senior colleagues in the office, Slack's co-founder told Insider in an interview. Cal Henderson, who co-founded Slack in 2009 and is its chief technology officer, chimed in on the debate around remote working saying there are a few different reasons why major firms like Meta and Google are mandating workers to return to the office a few days a week. It's partly because some roles and industries are apprenticeship driven and "you learn by watching somebody who's more experienced than you do the job," he said. He continued: "You sit next to them, you ride along on a sales phone call, you watch a finance person put together a spreadsheet in the middle of the night – like the people who are working at Goldman Sachs. It's a very different experience if your VP isn't there in the office with you as you work overnight on something." It's harder to "replicate" this experience in "a hybrid way," he added. Salesforce, the software company that acquired Slack in 2021, planned to call employees back to the office at least three days a week despite pushing flexible working policies during the pandemic. Henderson emphasized that "in my organization, the people who come into the office most, by far, are interns," because it's their first experience of work and many are living in small apartments or flat shares. He clarified that he thinks workers who interned or were very early in their careers during the pandemic "still learned to do their jobs" and are just "as productive as anybody else." Executives and professors are divided on the topic. NYU professor Scott Galloway previously said that young people "should never be at home" if they want to be successful professionally. Elon Musk, the billionaire owner of Twitter, has strong sentiments against remote and hybrid work having previously said it's "morally wrong." In regard to Musk's comments Henderson said: "Elon Musk isn't in the office every day because he's the CEO of three companies. He can't even be in the office every other day at each of his companies." Still, "I think there are certain kinds of roles in which it's much harder to be successful unless you're able to learn from other people and those roles won't necessarily evolve anytime soon to make that not true," he said. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.