The RealReal Inc. is on the hunt for a new finance chief. The resale pioneer said that Robert Julian would step down as chief financial officer when a replacement is found or on Jan. 31. More from WWD Enhypen Drove Milan Fashion Week Social Engagement, Alaïa Is Taking Over a Flea Market The 18 Best Women's Sweaters for Cute and Cozy Style This Fall The 18 Best Bandeau Bras for Every Bust Size Julian agreed to provide “limited consulting services” for five months beyond that for $5,000 a month, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The filing said the departure was not related to any disagreement with the company, but that it would “be treated as an involuntary termination without cause consistent with his existing severance and change in control agreement with the company.” Julian will continue to receive his current annual base salary of $475,000 and remain eligible for his second-half bonus. John Koryl, who took the reins as chief executive officer in February, said: “Robert and I have worked closely together since my arrival as CEO earlier this year, and I have deeply appreciated his counsel and leadership. We wish Robert success in his future endeavors. As we announced last quarter, we remain committed to our key initiatives and believe we are on the right path.” Julian served as co-interim CEO last year after founder Julie Wainwright left the company. Julian said: “It has been a great pleasure to serve as CFO of The RealReal over the past two years. I have the utmost confidence in the brand, and I am grateful for the opportunity to work with one of the most dedicated teams in the luxury resale industry.” The RealReal helped kickstart the whole idea of luxury resale sector, but has struggled to turn that enthusiasm into a profitable business. In the second quarter, the company posted a net loss of $41.3 million as revenues decreased by 15 percent to $131 million. Shares of the company fell 5.8 percent to $2.11 on Friday. Best of WWD Harvey Nichols Sees Sales Dip, Losses Widen in Year Marred by Closures Nike Logs $1.3 Billion Profit, But Supply Chain Issues Persist Zegna Shares Start Trading on New York Stock Exchange Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.