Some of fashion’s biggest names are steering into what looks like more choppy waters this year without a permanent captain — searching for new chief executive officers and some new direction. VF Corp., parent to Supreme, The North Face, Vans and more, is looking to replace Steve Rendle, who retired “by mutual agreement with the board” last month. Kohl’s Corp. is filling the void left by Michelle Gass, who in November stepped away to work under and ultimately succeed Levi Strauss & Co. CEO Chip Bergh. Gap Inc. has been on the hunt for a successor for Sonia Syngal since July. The RealReal has been led by co-interim CEOs since June, when founder Julie Wainwright stepped down abruptly. Under Armour Inc. was set to be part of that list until naming Marriott president Stephanie Linnartz as its next CEO just before Christmas. More from WWD Up Close with The RealReal's 'Joy of Making and Creating' Recollection 04 A Closer Look at Yeezy Gap Engineered by Balenciaga's Second Drop In Rising China, Global Retailers See Upward Trajectory There’s always some C-suite churn in fashion as companies make course corrections and CEOs plot their careers and retirements. But the executive exodus last year speaks to the dramatic changes in the market. The pandemic stop and start, the supply chain turmoil and finally ultra-high inflation and the very real threat of recession have made everything harder. In some cases the crowd of interim CEOs might be able to use their perch to make quick changes to right the ship before handing over control. At Kohl’s, for instance, Burlington veteran Tom Kingsbury is leading as interim CEO and is expected to move to get and keep the company’s inventory in line. And VF, which is being run by lead independent director and former Clorox CEO Benno Dorer, is rumored to be considering the sale of Jansport, potentially giving it some more breathing room as it refinances debt and turns around Vans. But soon decisions are going to have to be made. And just who is running the show might make all the difference in the world, especially since new CEOs occasionally come in looking to lead big-time transformations with big-time risk. CEO searches are also harder today since the modern corporate chief has to be a multitasker. It is no longer enough to be good at retail or good at e-commerce, but brands of all stripes need to be good at both and figure out how to bring the two sides of the business together with the right balance. The trick this year will be getting it all right in the midst of a consumer slowdown, at best, and possibly a severe recession. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?