The Singapore Tourism Board (STB) and Little Black Book (LBB) have partnered with some of India’s leading fashion brands – Nykaa Fashion, Chumbak, and The Souled Store – to launch a new collection of ‘SingaporeInspired’ retail and fashion products. This launch of the second edition of close collaboration between STB and LBB follows a very successful first edition in January 2022, entitled “Singapore Edit Festival”. Designers from the 3 Indian brands were invited to visit Singapore on a specially curated program, to create exclusive capsule collections inspired by their experiences in Singapore. The collection includes a colourful range of 41 products comprising clothing, accessories, home decor, and lifestyle products, featuring Singaporean designs as Peranakan motifs, orchid prints, and slogans referencing Singapore’s unique foodie culture. Speaking about the collaboration,GB Srithar, Regional Director, India, Middle East, South Asia and Africa, STB said, “We are thrilled to partner LBB in this retail initiative for a second time. This collaboration offers an excellent opportunity to highlight Singapore’s unique experiences and attractions. It also enables us to reach out to an audience of young millennials who forms a significant size of LBB’s follower base, which is one of STB’s key focus target customer segments in India. We believe that these Singapore-inspired collections will offer them a distinct glimpse into the country’s ever-evolving persona and inspire them to visit our vibrant city-state.” Suchita Salwan, Co-founder LBB, said, “We are thrilled to partner with Singapore Tourism Board once again in this one-of-a-kind omnichannel collaboration. At LBB, we always aspire to do #SomethingDifferent – from onboarding the right brand partners in RSVP by Nykaa Fashion, Chumbak & The Souled Store, embarking on a trip to experience Singapore up-close, and helping the brands to create limited edition collection that best mirrored Singapore’s rich art & cultural heritage that is designed and made in India. This is a true testament to the magical rendezvous of creativity, passion and the right inspiration #SingaporeInspired.” 
 Club Mahindra introduces Club Mahindra Janjehli in Himachal Pradesh Baku Life Travel appoints SSR Travel Solutions as India Representative Monday, 19 August 2024, 7:00 PM Monday, 19 August 2024, 6:30 PM Monday, 19 August 2024, 6:00 PM © Copyright 2013 Saffron Synergies Pvt Ltd