
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)   TIFIN AMP has expanded its data science and distribution partnership talent, including former executives from Salesforce, Blackrock, Meta, and Alpha FMC.  
  This announcement follows the announcement of a strategic collaboration to receive data from Morningstar's platforms.  
BOULDER, Colo. and NEW YORK, April 20, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- tifin amp , the AI Partner For Modern Distribution, announced the expansion of its data science and distribution teams with varying experiences and backgrounds. These hires include Nikhil Nawathe as the Head of Data Science at TIFIN AMP and Sam Browning as Director of Growth Partnerships.
Nikhil Nawathe joins as the Head of Data Science at TIFIN AMP. He holds a Master's degree from Cornell University and spent the last eight years at Meta, where he built and led a data science team focused on marketing effectiveness and driving impact to end clients. Nikhil will oversee the development of intelligent algorithms within TIFIN AMP to address the modern data and distribution frictions in the Asset Management industry.
Also part of this expansion, Sam Browning joins via global consultancy Alpha FMC to lead Growth Partnerships for TIFIN AMP. At Alpha FMC, Sam previously served as an Executive Director where he led complex strategy and operational transformation projects across Sales & Marketing Strategy, Data Science, Machine Learning, Analytics, Enterprise Data, CRM, and Distribution Technologies for Wealth and Asset Management Firms.
In addition to Nikhil and Sam, TIFIN AMP has also added a Data Science Lead from Blackrock and a new Director of Sales from Salesforce.
"I am very excited to welcome this new talent into TIFIN's AMP team," said Jack Swift, GM of TIFIN AMP. "We are leading the industry in the use of Data Science and AI to solve frictions facing Asset Managers to modernize their distribution. With these strong additions to the TIFIN AMP team, we believe the platform is uniquely positioned to help us and our partners grow faster."
  About TIFIN  
tifin is an AI and innovation platform for wealth. Founded by Dr. Vinay Nair, a former Wharton Professor and successful entrepreneur, TIFIN was created to build engaging and intelligent wealth experiences for better financial lives.
TIFIN manages magnifi , a consumer-focused marketplace that delivers investment personalization through next-gen intelligence and an AI investing assistant; tifin wealth , an AI platform that enables client personalization for financial advisors, wealth enterprises, and workplace financial providers; tifin amp , an AI platform to modernize distribution for Asset Management firms; and TIFIN Studios, an incubation platform for new business creation.
  For media inquiries, please contact:  AJ Boury[email protected] 
The information contained herein should in no way be construed or interpreted as a solicitation to sell or offer to sell advisory services. All content is for informational purposes only.
SOURCE TIFIN
MENAFN20042023003732001241ID1106059608    This announcement follows the announcement of a strategic collaboration to receive data from Morningstar's platforms.   BOULDER, Colo. and NEW YORK, April 20, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- tifin amp , the AI Partner For Modern Distribution, announced the expansion of its data science and distribution teams with varying experiences and backgrounds. These hires include Nikhil Nawathe as the Head of Data Science at TIFIN AMP and Sam Browning as Director of Growth Partnerships. Nikhil Nawathe joins as the Head of Data Science at TIFIN AMP. He holds a Master's degree from Cornell University and spent the last eight years at Meta, where he built and led a data science team focused on marketing effectiveness and driving impact to end clients. Nikhil will oversee the development of intelligent algorithms within TIFIN AMP to address the modern data and distribution frictions in the Asset Management industry. Also part of this expansion, Sam Browning joins via global consultancy Alpha FMC to lead Growth Partnerships for TIFIN AMP. At Alpha FMC, Sam previously served as an Executive Director where he led complex strategy and operational transformation projects across Sales & Marketing Strategy, Data Science, Machine Learning, Analytics, Enterprise Data, CRM, and Distribution Technologies for Wealth and Asset Management Firms. In addition to Nikhil and Sam, TIFIN AMP has also added a Data Science Lead from Blackrock and a new Director of Sales from Salesforce. "I am very excited to welcome this new talent into TIFIN's AMP team," said Jack Swift, GM of TIFIN AMP. "We are leading the industry in the use of Data Science and AI to solve frictions facing Asset Managers to modernize their distribution. With these strong additions to the TIFIN AMP team, we believe the platform is uniquely positioned to help us and our partners grow faster."   About TIFIN   tifin is an AI and innovation platform for wealth. Founded by Dr. Vinay Nair, a former Wharton Professor and successful entrepreneur, TIFIN was created to build engaging and intelligent wealth experiences for better financial lives. TIFIN manages magnifi , a consumer-focused marketplace that delivers investment personalization through next-gen intelligence and an AI investing assistant; tifin wealth , an AI platform that enables client personalization for financial advisors, wealth enterprises, and workplace financial providers; tifin amp , an AI platform to modernize distribution for Asset Management firms; and TIFIN Studios, an incubation platform for new business creation.   For media inquiries, please contact:  AJ Boury[email protected]  The information contained herein should in no way be construed or interpreted as a solicitation to sell or offer to sell advisory services. All content is for informational purposes only. SOURCE TIFIN MENAFN20042023003732001241ID1106059608 MENAFN20042023003732001241ID1106059608 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN