The Arizona Republic has named a new editor for its award-winning investigative reporting team. Wyatt Buchanan, who previously served as The Republic and azcentral.com’s editor for state government and politics at the Arizona Capitol, will now lead the reporters who do in-depth research and reporting on individuals and institutions to uncover wrongdoing and check abuses of power. “Wyatt’s stellar work leading state politics reporting has grounded him in the issues most important to Arizonans. He’s proven sharp, focused and fair in his oversight of coverage at a time of intense political divisiveness,” Greg Burton, Republic executive editor, said. “Wyatt and his team will listen closely to members of the community and work hard to spotlight information often kept hidden that undermines quality of life in the state.” Buchanan has worked at The Republic for nine years, leading the state coverage for the past six. He shepherded investigations into former Gov. Doug Ducey’s false claims about eliminating regulations, the stacking of justices on the Arizona Supreme Court and sexual harassment at the Capitol. The work he has edited has won multiple top awards, including twice for “Story of the Year” from the Arizona Newspapers Association for stories about the dubious “Border Strike Force” and vacant city-owned land neglected by Phoenix. He was a key part of the team that won the Scripps Howard Award for distinguished service to the First Amendment for coverage of efforts to overturn the 2020 presidential election in Arizona. “The investigative team at The Republic has a long history of exposing wrongdoing at the highest levels and looking out for some of the most vulnerable people in our state,” Buchanan said. “I feel honored and humbled by the news organization putting its faith in me to help continue that tradition. I want our readers and Arizonans to know that I will work aggressively on their behalf to hold the powerful accountable and to highlight deep-rooted problems facing residents here.” Buchanan, 43, has worked in journalism for more than two decades. Before joining The Republic, he spent 10 years as a reporter covering state politics and other issues for the San Francisco Chronicle. He’s a native of Idaho. Michael Braga, who previously served as The Republic’s investigative editor, has moved into a new role as an investigative reporter. Also on the team are reporters Robert Anglen, Kunle Falayi, Andrew Ford, Sahana Jayaraman, Caitlin McGlade and Richard Ruelas. The Republic’s investigative team has won multiple national awards, most recently for exposing a Valley-based medical company that was sued by clients and the U.S. Department of Justice for endangering lives with unnecessary procedures and another series that showed how the state exploits the labor of prisoners. Other recent work includes a series examining resident harm in senior-living facilities. 'They hate me right now': Allegations fly in family drama spilling out of My Sister's Closet Contact Buchanan and the investigative team with any tips about possible fraud or corruption. Email newstips@arizonarepublic.com or wyatt.buchanan@arizonarepublic.com. This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: Wyatt Buchanan named investigations editor at The Arizona Republic New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.