Before February 2022, Irene Amrine felt she had no connection with her Ukrainian heritage, but the Russian invasion drastically changed that. It was a wake-up call, telling her it was time to stand up for the country she left when she was 14, just as her ancestors did before her. By March, she had cofounded Cactus And Tryzub, a volunteer initiative based in Phoenix that focuses on advocacy and activism in support of Ukraine. The organization's name combines a staple of the Southwest with the Ukrainian Coat of Arms as a display of the connection between Amrine's new home and her old home. Through Cactus and Tryzub, Amrine told The Arizona Republic she makes the choice every day to continue her family's legacy of standing up for the country they believe in. From the 1920s to the 1950s, the Soviet Union imprisoned political dissenters in the Gulag, a system of forced labor camps. Amrine's grandfather was imprisoned at a labor camp in Siberia for ten years because of his activism. Her grandmother also spent ten years at a camp in Kazakhstan where she witnessed the Kengir Uprising, Amrine said. Her grandmother had been arrested because she published papers that engaged people in the Russian Resistance Army, which she was involved with. "I feel like the overarching message from my family members is to 'never surrender to the regime and never give up your freedom,'" Amrine said. When her mother's American relatives visited Ukraine in the 1970s, her mother was taken into questioning and had to give information of the visitors. One of those relatives, her mother's cousin, Larysa Kurylas, would become a mentor to Amrine later on. In 1994, despite the Soviet Union having been dissolved, remnants of the regime were still felt in Ukraine, leading her family to leave the country. "To preserve our family and to avoid any kind of political persecution, we just decided to emigrate," she said. Her grandmother left first. Amrine, her parents and her twin sister joined soon after. In May of 1997, the family arrived in South Dakota. Soon after, she and her siblings were attending school with life-long South Dakota residents. "I remember my first day of high school. We had a cheerleader assembly and I had no idea what was going on," she recalled. "It was just a matter of keeping up and learning." Her family prioritized assimilating into American society, so she soon got involved in tennis and piano and developed an aptitude for biology, while her sister thrived at mathematics. When she graduated high school in 2002 she made the decision to move to Arizona to attend Arizona State University, pursuing a bachelor's and master's in cellular and molecular biology. She went on to become a molecular researcher and soon after founded Flash and Hound, a pet photography business that she co-runs with her husband, Craig Amrine. Her life went on without much thought about her Ukrainian heritage. When people assumed she was from Russia because of her name, she didn't correct them. "I really kick myself in the butt... It's a very important distinction and I know that in my past, I've let it slide. (Now) I refuse to do that," she said. An important part of Cactus and Tryzub's mission is spreading Ukraine's culture and keeping it alive. It aims to emphasize the fact that Kyiv, Ukraine's capital city, existed around 600 years before Moscow did. In addition to speaking engagements, advocacy and fundraising, the organization also organizes Ukrainian film showings, wine tastings and concerts. For Amrine, sharing the positive aspects of Ukrainian culture that persist through the war with Russia is crucial. Each month, she sends out a newsletter detailing events in the Ukrainian community that are open to all. "The whole point of Cactus and Tryzub is to bring the community together," she said. "We want to encourage people to stay on with Ukraine and to have a call to action." In the fall of 2022, Amrine and other members of the organization traveled to Washington to participate in the Ukrainian Action Summit. Advocates had over 170 congressional meetings over the course of two days to promote Ukrainian freedom and policy in support of the country. While in Washington, she reconnected with 66-year-old Kurylas, who was surprised to get a random message on Facebook from her cousin's daughter. Kurylas was born in the United States but was raised speaking Ukrainian and practicing Ukrainian traditions. An architect, she's well-known for her National Holodomor Memorial in Washington, which honors a famine caused by the Soviet government in 1932. Kurylas' generation's advocacy for Ukraine was centered around spreading the message that Ukraine is different from Russia. She said she was impressed with the savviness of Amrine's generation. "It was very gratifying to hear that this next generation of Ukrainians have the same kind of passion that my generation had about trying to educate Americans about the situation that Ukraine was in," Kurylas said. "What Irene's generation understands is the power of the political process. If you want government support, you have to lobby your congressmen and senators." Amrine also reconnected with her godmother, Olenka Sasyshyn, who lives in Baltimore. Sasyshyn had been involved in efforts to preserve Ukrainian traditions through her church prior to the invasion and by the time Amrine reached out, Sasyshyn was involved with a volunteer center similar to Cactus and Tryzub. "Whatever ideas we have, we exchange them. (We ask each other) what else can be done," Sasyshyn said. "I think she's a huge inspiration for people uniting around her." One of Amrine's biggest supporters is her husband, Craig. He watched her rediscover her roots and has been by her side through some of the tough moments that supporting Ukraine has brought her. "It was tragic to some degree because it was a rediscovery through witnessing horror," he said. "(There were) a lot of emotional ups and downs, a lot of tears and frustration." Craig, born and raised in the U.S., said he didn't know a lot about Ukraine before his wife became an activist. Learning from her has been life-changing. "Most Americans can't imagine growing up in a dictatorship, (like the one) she grew up in. We just don't know. I think that's such an eye-opener."