Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego of Arizona announced his bid for the Senate Monday, setting up to challenge Democrat-turned-independent Sen. Kyrsten Sinema in 2024. Gallego confirmed his long-anticipated Senate campaign in a three-and-a-half minute video statement, tweeting that "Today, too many Arizonans see their dream slipping away. I’m running for the U.S. Senate to win it back for you!" Stay in the conversation on politics: Sign up for the OnPolitics newsletter Live updates: Fallout builds over Biden classified documents as the Senate returns The 43-year-old military veteran first elected to Congress in 2014 has been a vocal critic of Sinema, a long-time political rival, as she's threatened legislative priorities for Democratic leaders, including President Joe Biden. Growing up poor, all I had was the American dream. It kept me going: as a kid sleeping on the floor, a student scrubbing toilets, a Marine losing brothers in Iraq.Today, too many Arizonans see their dream slipping away. I’m running for the U.S. Senate to win it back for you! pic.twitter.com/ofUvUYRcTP — Ruben Gallego (@RubenGallego) January 23, 2023 The Arizona senator, along with Democrat Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, blocked Democrats from changing filibuster rules, preventing passage of voting rights legislation and Biden's Build Back Better legislation that would have expanded a large swath of safety net programs including Medicare. “I’m better for this job than Kyrsten Sinema because I haven’t forgotten where I came from,” Gallego said. “I think she clearly has forgotten where she came from. Instead of meeting with the people that need help, she meets with the people that are already powerful.” More: Georgia judge to consider releasing Trump investigation report at a hearing Tuesday Missing classified records not uncommon: Biden and Trump documents expose wider problem Sinema left the Democratic Party last December, announcing she would register as an independent and consequently dampening the Democrats narrow 51-49 control of the Senate. Though she is still caucusing with the Democrats in the Senate, the defection risks the party's hold of Arizona as it approaches a challenging 2024 Senate map. Gallego now joins Rep. Katie Porter, D-Calif., on the list of Democrats seeking a Senate seat in 2024. Porter, who represents California's Orange County, launched her Senate campaign to replace longtime California Sen. Dianne Feinstein earlier this month. Porter, an outspoken progressive lawmaker first elected to Congress in 2018, announced her bid for Senate amid speculation that Feinstein won't seek reelection. Contributing the Associated Press, Mabinty Quarshie and Ella Lee This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Gallego launches Senate bid, set to challenge Kyrsten Sinema in 2024 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.