By   Joy Donovan By   Joy Donovan 3:25 PM on Sep 14, 2023 CDT Business is booming throughout The University of Texas at Dallas (UTD) as the university continues to grow in size and stature. UTD’s Naveen Jindal School of Management is at the epicenter of the boom. The largest school at the university by enrollment with almost 10,000 of the university’s 32,000-student enrollment, the business school is a juggernaut. In addition, U.S. News and World Report ranks the program among the Top 10 public schools of business in the country. For UTD, which, from its beginning has been best known for its nationally recognized engineering and computer science programs, the rise of its School of Management has been remarkable. So how did JSOM — as it’s commonly known — earn its place among the nation’s best business schools? “It’s easy,” says associate dean Diane McNulty. “It’s the dean. He’s a total visionary. He always had a plan for the school’s growth in students, faculty, research and prominence.” Making a difference in North Texas is our "why." Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy The dean, Hasan Pirkul, an award-winning academic leader, has directed the School of Management since 1996. He holds an undergraduate degree in industrial engineering, a master’s degree in management science and a doctorate in computers and information systems. Those degrees prepared him for the academic achievements he has overseen at UTD, giving its graduates the foundation they need for business success. “We are student-centric,” says Pirkul, who came to UTD after 15 years at Ohio State. “We have gone out of our way for undergraduates to give them a small-school experience at a large university.” The effort is paying off. Each year the school attracts high-achieving students, including 58 National Merit Scholars currently enrolled. UTD as a whole enrolled more National Merit Scholars last fall than any other university in Texas and the fifth most in the U.S.. Alejandro Jimenez Herrera, who graduated cum laude in 2022 from UT Dallas with a bachelor’s degree in finance with a real estate concentration and is pursuing a master’s degree in finance, says the Jindal School prepared him for a successful professional career through its first-rate business school experience. “Three parts of JSOM have stood out to me,” he says. “Its exceptional professors, the variety of clubs on campus and exposure to employment opportunities in D-FW. JSOM provided me with the opportunity to serve as the president of the UTD Real Estate Club, complete three internships at top commercial real estate firms and learn from industry-experienced professors.” Pirkul points out that each of the school’s degree programs are led by dedicated faculty and staff, a critical element to students’ future success. “I call them ‘shepherds of our flocks,’” he says. “You need to pay attention to young students or you’re doing damage to them. We bring in the professors who will help our students get ready. If we have done our job correctly, our graduates should provide value to businesses and organizations immediately.” Dan Sessa, chief human resources officer for Lennox International, Inc. and chair of UTD’s Dean’s Advisory Council is a believer. Every year his company hires UTD graduates, and Sessa says those new hires distinguish themselves by being both good communicators and community-oriented. “UT Dallas produces high-quality and well-rounded students who can quickly assimilate into the business world,” Sessa says. “So hiring grads from UTD with a strong sense of community fits very nicely with who we are, on top of their strong coursework and strong GPAs. It just builds a more well-rounded and effective early career employee.” The majors offered also result in the school’s graduates being snatched up by major companies, many now considered the university’s partners. Scholarships, internships and job offers come from these corporate partners who recognize the caliber of UTD students. That reputation draws students to the school from around the world. A plus for the region, 70% of them stay in Texas after graduation. Allison Lawrence, a native of Montreal, and president of e-commerce with Stanley Black & Decker, received an executive MBA in 2013 from JSOM. She says that education equipped her with knowledge about supply chain management, organizational behavior, finance and leadership. “It was a perfect foundation for what would become a decade of increased responsibility,” she says. “All those foundational principles were laid at UT Dallas, which prepared me really well. I credit them for a lot of my success over the last decade.” JSOM, named for alumnus and benefactor Naveen Jindal, attracts excellent students for many reasons. The six academic areas – accounting; finance and managerial economics; information systems; marketing; operations management; and organizations, strategy and international management —are offered, as well as certificate programs through JSOM’s executive education department. The school offers more than 30 majors at the undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. New this fall, the school is also offering a Doctor of Business Administration with 12 students enrolled. A native of India, Jindal is known in his home country of India as a business and political leader. He serves as an executive with the O.P. Jindal Group, a manufacturing conglomerate, and today is chairman of Jindal Steel & Power. In addition, he served two terms in the Indian parliament and founded the O.P. Jindal Global University, a private university in Sonipat, India. “It is an incredible privilege to be recognized by the institution that played such an important role in my life,” he says. “The seeds for many of my achievements were planted here during my days as a student.” Other JSOM alumni have similar thoughts, including Tim Reazor, CEO and co-founder of Fifth & Cherry, a multistate business that makes high-quality, handcrafted cutting boards. Reazor says the university, where he received two master’s degrees, one in entrepreneurship, changed his life. “What an amazing university,” he says. “UTD has a rich, entrepreneurial launchpad with all the love, support and networking you’ll ever need. Everything you need to become an entrepreneur is at UTD.” The Texas Business Hall of Fame will award Reazor’s company a grant at the organization’s November gala this year. It’s money he plans to put back into the business that UTD helped him launch. “The staff at the Jindal School of Management is invested in you,” Reazor says. “They want you to succeed. My goodness, they want you to win, and that’s powerful.” Creating that positive, successful culture has been a major emphasis. In his 27 years at the helm, Pirkul has continued to foster a stable value system within the school. The school’s environment is something that he hopes students absorb, carrying it with them after graduation into the workplace. “Culture defines what organizations do,” Pirkul said. “We always ask, ‘Is this the right thing to do?’” At UTD, the purpose has always been more than preparing students to collect a big paycheck, he says. “It’s a world-class school, and it’s full of good people doing good work every day. We are here, changing people’s lives.” Joy Donovan