newsWatchdog By  Dave Lieber By  Dave Lieber 5:00 AM on Oct 16, 2023 CDT If you’re old enough to remember one of America’s greatest sports columnists, Blackie Sherrod, you probably remember when he’d tie several short story ideas together and called it “scattershooting.” In honor of Blackie, who retired from The Dallas Morning News and died in 2016 at age 96, here’s The Watchdog’s version of scattershooting. Did you know you can now look up your projected property tax bill? See how much you’ve saved under the new tax law. In most cases, the final numbers are in. Are you a taxpayer in Texas? The Watchdog has your back. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Go to Texas.gov and look for “Resident” on the top white tab. Then click on “Property Tax Transparency.” Scroll down to “Find your county’s website.” Click on your county’s name. If, for some reason, that doesn’t work, enter the site by going to Texas.gov/propertytaxes and click on “Property Tax Transparency.” Once you’re in your county, enter your property address, your property’s tax ID or your name. If you enter your address and it doesn’t come up, delete the words Lane, Drive, Street, Circle, Court, etc. That’s a flaw in the software that counties are using. So if you’re looking up 1313 Mockingbird Lane (yes, home of the Munsters) and it doesn’t come up, change it to 1313 Mockingbird. Click “View” to see your taxes. If that doesn’t work, try your name or property ID. If it doesn’t work, contact your county appraisal district for further information Once your property comes up, the two most important categories are “Last Years Taxes (2022)” and “Adopted Taxes (2023).” Take the 2022 total from the bottom and subtract the 2023 total and voila — your savings! In my case, my tax bill drops $1,900. I attribute that to two things: a senior freeze and the fact that I protest my property appraisal every year, keeping the base level down. You can also see how your neighbors are doing. One of my neighbors who qualifies for the senior freeze will see his tax drop $2,145. My other neighbor, too young for the freeze, will drop $1,372. These are not the official tax bills, which will arrive in the mail. But they are supposed to be good numbers representing all your taxing entities. I hope you find good news when you look up your home. Note: I did this on a desktop computer and didn’t check it on a smartphone. Wendell Link of Coppell has a bad-luck problem. His neighbor’s house caught fire and burned, so it must be replaced. Meanwhile, Link’s house suffered $50,000 in damages for roof repair, windows, siding, gutters, cleaning and painting and deodorizing the home’s interior. Let’s call his insurance company ABC, and his neighbor’s is company XYZ. ABC sent him $23,000, which almost gets him halfway there. ABC promised to get the rest of the money from XYZ. But he hasn’t received anything from XYZ because a fire investigator’s report stated the cause is undetermined. Yet XYZ still paid his neighbor’s claims — just  not his. “All these years of paying escalating premiums certainly gave me a false sense of security, as I am now finding out,” he tells The Watchdog. I shared my ideas with him: File a complaint with the Texas Department of Insurance. I also explained my doggie theory of dealing with stubborn insurance companies. Until they hear a certain keyword, they don’t take you seriously. Sometimes, all they hear when you complain to them is “blah, blah, blah.” But if you hire a lawyer, you are elevated in their priority because they are trained to listen for that word – “blah, blah, blah, lawyer.” Like a dog, their ears perk up. Dogs don’t hear the words “Are you?” But they do hear the keyword, “Blah-blah-blah, hungry?” It’s a shame that it sometimes takes a lawyer’s involvement in an insurance case to get money, but that’s no blah-blah. Back in February, I shared news of a new state police agency called the Financial Crimes Intelligence Center operating out of Tyler. Center operators have said it’s the only center of its type to focus on credit card fraud. Update: The center says it has prevented $131 million in losses. A total of 600 credit card skimmers were seized. It’s doing so well that director and chief investigator Adam Colby told me the center is expanding from its original six employees. The Legislature gave permission to add five more jobs this year, and five more after that. That’s making a contribution to remove my nickname of Texas as the Lone Scam State. Here’s a subject close to The Watchdog’s heart — changes and improvements to the half-century-old Texas Public Information Act. According to a report from the Freedom of Information Foundation of Texas, lawmakers closed a loophole that some police departments used to hide information when someone dies in law enforcement custody. Another change defines what is considered “a business day” with the goal of “preventing government offices from wrongly shutting their doors to information requesters.” Under the state open records law, most government records belong to us, and elected and appointed officials are merely custodians of the records. I love the preamble of the law: “The people, in delegating authority, do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know. “The people insist on remaining informed so that they may retain control over the instruments they have created.” I listened to oral arguments at the U.S. Supreme Court recently in a case challenging the only consumer protection agency that has ever existed in this country — the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (ConsumerFinance.gov). What does the bureau do? Lately, it’s investigating the use of artificial intelligence chatbots in banking, making rules to remove medical bills from credit reports and uncovering illegal junk fees on bank accounts, mortgages and student and auto loans. Those are worthy endeavors. The high court’s case was brought by two associations representing payday lenders. The issue is whether the bureau is allowed to be independent of Congress. Under current law, Congress can’t defund the bureau. Let’s end with a quote from the immortal Blackie Sherrod. “Freeways come in two models — overcrowded and under construction.” Join Dave Lieber and learn to be a super-consumer. Watchdog newsletter: Sign up for The Watchdog’s FREE weekly newsletter to keep up: click here. Subscribe: PLEASE support The Watchdog’s brand of straightforward journalism designed to save you time, money and aggravation. Treat yourself to a digital subscription (and make him look good!) by visiting https://dallasnews.com/subscribe Watchdog Home Page: You can’t afford to miss The Watchdog’s two reports each week. Follow our latest reporting always at The Watchdog home page which features all recent columns. Watch this free training video from Dave: https://youtu.be/uhUEUCNKGjc Facebook: Connect with The Watchdog on our Facebook group. Search for “DallasNews Watchdog Posse.” The Dallas Morning News Watchdog column is the 2019 winner of the top prize for column writing from the National Society of Newspaper Columnists. The contest judge called his winning entries “models of suspenseful storytelling and public service.” Read his winning columns: * Helping the widow of Officer J.D. Tippit, the Dallas police officer killed by Lee Harvey Oswald, get buried beside her late husband * Helping a waitress who was harmed by an unscrupulous used car dealer Dave Lieber. DAVE LIEBER is “The Watchdog” investigative columnist for The Dallas Morning News who fights for his readers and exposes bad practices in business and government. A judge in a national columnists contest called his winning entries "models of suspenseful storytelling and public service."