Business By  Irving Mejia-Hilario By  Irving Mejia-Hilario 7:00 AM on Jul 1, 2023 CDT Japanese retailer Daiso announced the opening of its second United States distribution center in DeSoto, a move that will give it capacity to grow in Texas and beyond. Daiso will work with logistics network Flexe and transportation and warehousing company JT Logistics to open the center in July. Lance Twitty, Daiso’s chief merchandising and supply chain officer, said the company’s presence in Texas and DeSoto would serve as a catapult to expand nationwide. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy “Texas just makes sense from a centralized area within the United States as we begin to venture from the West Coast to the East Coast,” Twitty said. “The DeSoto area is a great location in terms of highway capabilities and networking to our future stores, as well as accessibility down to Houston and the port.” Twitty said the company has big ideas for growing in the state. “We have a lot of plans over the next several years to continue to open up more stores in Texas,” Twitty said. “As you look at Houston, D-FW, San Antonio and Austin, it’s an area just primed with consumers who will definitely benefit from our offerings.” Twitty said Daiso could not give an exact number of stores it will open in Texas. But, for the foreseeable future, the DeSoto location will serve as Daiso’s one and only Texas distribution center. The distribution center also gives Daiso more potential to expand online, Twitty said. “It is primarily going to serve our physical brick-and-mortar strategy,” Twitty said. “But it also has the flexibility and capability to support e-commerce when we choose to expand upon that.” Daiso, which has stores in Irving, Euless, Grapevine, Plano, Arlington, Frisco and Fort Worth, will add Dallas to its list of locations in September, as it recently leased a 5,000-square-foot space on the Abrams side of Tom Thumb. Though some have characterized Daiso as a Japanese dollar store, Twitty said he thinks differently. “I wouldn’t call us a dollar store. We definitely have a couple of different price points that we offer,” Twitty said. “Our mission is to bring that Japanese lifestyle and product, introduce that to the U.S. consumer and expand that across the U.S. No matter where you go in the stores, it’s unique.” Irving Mejia-Hilario. Irving is a business writer for the Dallas Morning News. He's previously served as an environmental reporter for Bridge Michigan, a writer for Automotive News, and the sports and managing editor for the South End. He graduated from Wayne State University in 2023 with a degree in print and online journalism and psychology minor.