By   Peter Johnson By   Peter Johnson 2:00 AM on Feb 28, 2023 CST I was assigned to come to Dallas in 1970 to convince the power structure to show the documentary King: A Filmed Record ... From Montgomery to Memphis. You see, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. died without life insurance. There was not a life insurance company that would insure him because he was considered too high of a risk. So, he died with little money. Sidney Poitier and Harry Belafonte came up with an idea of how to raise money so that Coretta Scott King could care for her four young children. The plan was to show the documentary in 800 cities. I wanted to go to the Virgin Islands or Hawaii, but I was sent to Dallas. The only reason Dallas was chosen as home base for me was because of Dallas Love Field. Yes, that’s the only reason. Those of us in the civil rights movement had a very negative image of Dallas. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. This city was the only one where Dr. King was met by a group of Black pastors and told to go back home. He was told he wasn’t needed here. So, did I want to come to Dallas? Hell no! Out of 800 cities, Dallas was the only city that said “no!” to showing King’s documentary! I want to write what was really said to me by the white power structure, but I get angry every time of think of it. But this is where divine intervention interrupted the plans of the white power structure in Dallas and allowed the documentary to be shown. A wealthy white Dallasite named Peter McGuire came to my office and offered to pay for the movie to be shown in movie theaters. He also paid for buses to pick up residents from Black communities and transport them to and from the movie. This happened one week before the premiere of the movie. I am forever grateful to Peter, who was brought to me by former Dallas Cowboy Frank Clarke. Get smart opinions on the topics North Texans care about. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy I was scheduled to go back to Atlanta for another assignment, but the night before I was to leave, I was met at my hotel by a group representing the Fair Park Homeowners Association. J.B. Jackson Jr. and future  Dallas City Council  members Albert Lipscomb and  Elsie Faye Heggins asked me for help regarding their properties in South Dallas. I told them we couldn’t stop the city from taking their properties due to eminent domain, but what we could do was to be sure each Black homeowner received fair market value for their property. We were successful in our fight for fair market value for the properties. We were also successful with integrating the Cotton Bowl Parade when J.B. Jackson rode in the car with then-Mayor J. Erik Jonsson, and it was seen on national television! It was divine intervention, and it continues to be divine intervention. I am in Dallas 50 years later still due to divine intervention. I’ve weathered the fight for single-member council districts; Blacks being hired in executive positions at banks, major stores and corporations; closing down Safeway due to their racist practices; opening the door for people of color to get contracts with the city and county; hiring and promoting Blacks in the police and fire departments; voter registration and Get Out to Vote Drives; the most successful gun buy-back programs in the nation; and so many more protests and civil rights actions I can’t remember at this time. I’m blessed to be a visiting lecturer at University of North Texas-Dallas, teaching about my civil rights history, and I also started a nonprofit called the Peter Johnson Institute for Non-Violence. I’m 77 years old, my bones ache, my health is up and down, but my heart still tells me there is so much more to do. Divine intervention whispers to me every day, “Peter, keep on praying, keep on marching, keep on standing and keep on preaching!” The Rev. Peter Johnson, a 54-year Dallas civil rights leader, is a visiting lecturer teaching about civil rights at University of North Texas-Dallas, and founder of the nonprofit Peter Johnson Institute for Non-Violence. He wrote this for The Dallas Morning News. We welcome your thoughts in a letter to the editor. See the guidelines and submit your letter here. Peter Johnson