By  Dallas CothrumContributing Columnist By  Dallas CothrumContributing Columnist 1:30 AM on Jan 27, 2023 CST It’s a simple concept. You put your trash on the curb, or if you’re lucky just leave it in the alley, and a truck comes by once a week and makes it disappear. In Dallas, residents used to be able to rely on that like clockwork. Not so anymore, and people deserve to know why. There are few city services more fundamental than getting the trash picked up, and it’s something city government should be able to do. There is literally a road map. So what happened here? If you just listen to the official word from City Hall, you won’t get a good answer. So I dug a little deeper, and what I learned was concerning. In early December, the sanitation department switched from a four-day schedule to five days. According to conversations I’ve had with frontline workers, management did so without any input from the workers who are actually running the routes. Get smart opinions on the topics North Texans care about. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy A veteran with decades of experience blamed that on the “sheer arrogance of management.” Another said: “I love my job, but sanitation is broken.” A third said: “Morale is the lowest it’s ever been.” I’m not naming the workers I’ve spoken to because I’m worried it would risk their jobs, but my editors at The Dallas Morning News have confirmed these conversations. The problem is the victory of theory over experience. The plan devised by Sanitation Director Jay Council is based on new routes drawn by a software program. It was supposed to lead to greater efficiency and fewer work days for sanitation employees. So far, zero for two. I called Council for comment, and he declined. The workers I spoke to say that, in the old four-day system, Wednesday was a day for gathering missed collections, getting trucks serviced, making up for a holiday, or catching up after bad weather. Now they report that Saturday is that day. As such, the old four-day system was really five and the new five-day system is really six. The days aren’t any shorter either, they say. The problem has gotten so acute that, in north Oak Cliff, council member Chad West has used funds from his office and campaign for a private provider to haul off uncollected trash. In Far North Dallas, council member Cara Mendelsohn reported that over half the calls in her district continue to be for missed collections and these numbers do not even include recycling. The new system is failing. The new routes are not efficient. Some routes are so short a driver could do them in an hour. Some are split so strangely, they take trucks to multiple neighborhoods, widely separated. What’s more, the routes don’t account for the peculiarities of neighborhoods that longtime sanitation workers know. They assume an availability of equipment that just isn’t there. Most troubling, employees are working as many as 13 hours a day, according to the experienced employees who spoke to me. Have no doubt, sanitation workers in the city of Dallas work hard in very difficult conditions. These are people who deserve our thanks. They also deserved enough regard from management to hear their input before major structural changes were implemented. It’s thanks to their tremendous effort that garbage is being collected at all. “We are working our employees into the ground,” one longtime worker told me. Some are also driving their old routes but don’t want management to know. The new sanitation plan never had a chance, according to employees. Too many things needed to be done first. The fleet of vehicles is inadequate for the demands of the new plan. The service and maintenance group at the city has deteriorated. Trucks, already overworked, break down constantly. Most astonishing, only a small sample of routes were tested prior to implementation — and not in fleet vehicles or by the route drivers. All these shortcomings were well-known by employees. But City Council members didn’t have the information that this essential city service was about to undergo a radical, barely tested change that the city lacks the equipment to implement. This may not get better anytime soon. An update from the sanitation director to the City Council released this month noted two things of interest: Additional equipment may be leased to meet the minimum number of vehicles, and soon Code Enforcement will be making note of areas where trash needs to be picked up. When another department has to help, there is a major problem. Council member West plans to determine if private collection for emergency purposes might be necessary for the entire city. Complaints have slowed down for now, and the garbage is getting picked up, even if recycling and bulk trash are still lagging. That shouldn’t stop the council from demanding answers. If you scratch the surface, you will find that what’s working are the men and women of sanitation, who are cobbling together a functioning system every day they go into work. It’s their dedication that is keeping this city clean, not the management that’s running the show. We welcome your thoughts in a letter to the editor. See the guidelines and submit your letter here. Dallas Cothrum, Contributing Columnist. Dallas Cothrum is president of Masterplan, a Milrose company, the largest planning and permitting firm in Texas. The firm proudly provided consulting assistance for Big Tex’s “residence” and many others in the field.  He is a Contributing Columnist to The Dallas Morning News.