News By  Noor AdatiaTrending Reporter By  Noor AdatiaTrending Reporter 5:49 PM on Oct 27, 2023 CDT The National Weather Service issued a flood watch on Friday for the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex starting at 7 p.m. and set to last until Saturday at 9 a.m. A cold front passing through the region Friday night is bringing with it rain showers with “some rumbles of thunder,” said Hunter Reeves, meteorologist with the NWS. Chances of rain will increase overnight into Saturday morning, he said. Severe weather and lightning are not expected. However, flooding remains the biggest weather threat with this system, with an average of two to four inches of rainfall expected. Higher rainfall amounts up to six inches are possible south of Interstate-20. Storms are expected to be on and off throughout the evening, Reeves said. Chances of rainfall are widespread across North Texas, including in Denton, Collin, Dallas and Tarrant counties. Get the latest breaking news from North Texas and beyond. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy An earlier flood watch issued by the weather service cautioned of flooding near the Trinity River until late Saturday morning. Flash flooding across the region is possible overnight, and the NWS advises motorists to exercise caution on the roads Friday night. “The best thing to do is just not be on the roads,” Reeves said. “If you are out driving, if the roads are barricaded or blocked off, find an alternative route.” Flooded areas are not safe to drive through, especially at night when it is hard to gauge the level of water. During a period of heavy rain earlier this week, Dallas Fire-Rescue responded to 68 crashes and the department received 28 “high water incident” calls from storms that dumped up to six inches of rain to the area. The department had to use a boat to rescue a man. The weather system impacting D-FW Friday night is pretty typical for the region as October tends to be a wet month for the fall, Reeves added. Hurricane Otis’ landfall in Mexico earlier this week also influenced the current weather system. North Texans should also get ready to bring out their hoodies and jackets starting early next week when a freeze blankets the area Tuesday night. Temperatures are expected to dip into the 40s starting Sunday night, according to forecasts. Noor Adatia, Trending Reporter. Noor Adatia is a trending news reporter on the breaking team. Born and raised in Dallas, she graduated from Boston University's College of Communication in 2020. Before joining The Dallas Morning News, she worked for The Houston Chronicle, The Sacramento Bee and POLITICO.