Dick's Sporting Goods has opened 12 Dick's House of Sport stores including nine during the summer of 2023. That includes one in Scranton, Pa.DICK’S Sporting Goods, Inc. Dick’s Sporting Goods this summer launched nine new Dick’s House of Sport locations, including one in Pennsylvania, that include climbing walls, golf bays and multi-sport cages. The nine new locations joined three others already established in Victor, New York; Knoxville, Tennessee; and Minnetonka, Minnesota. The new stores include one at Viewmont Mall in Scranton. The others are in Katy and Baybrook, Texas; Davenport, Iowa; Champaign, Illinois; Chesapeake, Virginia; Fayetteville, North Carolina; and Latham and Johnson City, New York. House of Sport stores “in-store experiences” include a climbing wall, golf bays with TrackMan simulators and “multi-sport cages that can be used for baseball, softball, lacrosse and soccer and give customers an opportunity to try product while measuring and tracking their performance.” Dick’s said some locations even have a field attached to the store to be used for open play, clinics, leagues or as an ice rink. Dick’s said it has plans t open between 75 and 100 House of Sport locations by 2027. READ MORE: Walmart+ members can get double savings on gas through Sept. 15. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices