Post Malone loves the Dallas Cowboys. The Dallas Cowboys love Post Malone. Both love Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers. The logical extension comes on Thursday, when the three will collide to create a Post Malone and Dallas Cowboys-themed Raising Cane’s.  The store, located at 2255 W. Northwest Hwy., is an existing Raising Cane’s location with a Cowboys and Post Malone makeover. The artist, whose real name is Austin Post, is a Grapevine native and a die-hard Cowboys fan. His dad was an assistant director of food and beverage for the Cowboys, and at one point, he vouched so hard for the Cowboys that he said he’d get the number “88” tattooed on his face if the team won this past Super Bowl.  The inside of the restaurant is bright blue and white, with Post Malone and Cowboys memorabilia. 
 
 
 Advertisement
               He’s also a big fan of the fried chicken tenders restaurant—he made a personal request to open a Raising Cane’s location in Midvale, Utah, where he owns a home. The chain followed through and designed a Pepto-pink one for him that opened in April. In September, he and the restaurant collaborated to sell a Post Malone x Raising Cane’s cup.  At the new location, drive-thru patrons enter through a giant 32-foot Cowboys star. The inside is decked out in shades of electric blue with Cowboys and Posty memorabilia on display throughout the restaurant. Even the bathroom looks like a tiny locker room.  The menu will be the same as other locations, a representative says, but this location will have a vending machine with exclusive merch, opportunities to check out vintage Dallas Cowboys memorabilia, and a fan mailbox where customers can drop love letters to Posty.  There are pictures and murals of Post everywhere. It’s only natural to wonder if they will only play his music.  2255 W. Northwest Hwy. Attractions Bars and Clubs Shops Restaurants Making Dallas an Even Better Place 
750 North St.Paul St.
Suite 2100
Dallas, Texas 75201
 
Tel: 214.939.3636
               
              Fax: 214.748.4579
