Business By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor 8:00 AM on Jul 7, 2023 CDT Goldman Sachs is trimming the towers planned in its new office campus located just north of downtown Dallas. The three buildings to be constructed along the west side of Field Street north of Woodall Rodgers Freeway will now be 13, 10 and eight stories tall, according to documents filed with Dallas’ city plan commission. Originally, the New York-based financial firm had said its new office campus would range in height from nine to 15 floors. But that was before the company said it was cutting back the size of the new Dallas offices by about 100,000 square feet. Earlier this year, the company said it was reducing its workforce by thousands of jobs in the face of a slowing economy. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy The almost $500 million, 815,000-square-foot Dallas office campus is set to start construction in the coming months and will house thousands of Goldman Sachs workers when it opens in 2027. Parking for the buildings will be underground and first-floor retail space is planned. Architects Henning Larsen and BOKA Powell are designing the project, which is being developed by Hillwood and Hunt Realty Investments. The Goldman Sachs buildings are the first phase of an 11-acre, mixed-use development Hunt Realty is planning between Victory Park and Uptown. The complex of towers would replace the Northend Apartments, which were built in 1997. Called The NorthEnd, the project includes a central 1.5-acre urban park. Along with offices, the development is planned to include retail space, a hotel and residential towers. Original zoning for the development would allow buildings taller than 80 floors. The NorthEnd is one of the largest such real estate projects in the works for North Texas. It’s one of three big financial service company construction projects, along with Wells Fargo’s new Las Colinas campus and a tower in Frisco for TIAA. Steve Brown, Real Estate Editor. Steve covers commercial and residential real estate in Dallas-Fort Worth.