The cabinet committee on government purchase in a meeting on Wednesday approved two proposals from the food ministry to import 1 lakh tonnes of non-basmati rice in competitive bidding amid price spiral of the staple in local market. Per kilogramme price of imported rice will cost Tk 42.07 to Tk 42.68 while the coarse variety of rice sells Tk 46 to Tk 52 a kg in local market, said officials who attended the meeting. The meeting presided over by finance minister AHM Mustafa Kamal virtually also approved two other proposals from local government division, said cabinet division additional secretary Sayeed Mahbub Khan at an on-line briefing. He said that two suppliers — one each from India and Singapore — would supply 50,000 tonnes of rice each at an overall cost of Tk 423 crore. The procurement of rice is part of the government plan to import some 2.7 tonnes of the staple through international tenders in addition to import 7.3 lakh tonnes on the government-to-government basis.      The government has targeted collecting overall 30 lakh tonnes of rice for the current financial year ending in July this year. One third of the amount will be imported while the rest will be collected from local rice growers despite the government claim that the country has a surplus amount of rice. In the previous financial year, the country’s rice import stood at 9.87 lakh tonnes.  The food ministry selected Indian company Bagadiya Brothers Private Limited in an international tender for its lowest bidding of $393.19 for per tonne of rice. Four suppliers took part in the tender. Rice from the Indian company would cost Tk 42.07 per kilogramme, and Tk 210 crore would be required for the total consignment of 50,000 tonnes. In another international tender, Singapore-based Agrocrop International Private Limited quoted lowest $397.03 for per tonne of rice among three bidders. The import price of rice from the Singapore-based supplier will cost Tk 42.68 per kg, and Tk 213 crore would be required for the remaining consignment of 50,000 tonnes. One kilogramme coarse variety of rice was selling at Tk 46 to Tk 52 on Tuesday, according to the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh’s daily update on retail market prices of essentials. Volatilities in price of rice and other essentials kept inflation close to double digits over the past six months. Cabinet division additional secretary Sayeed Mahbub Khan said that the cabinet committee also approved a proposal from the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority under the Local Government Division to appoint the joint venture of SMEC International Pty Ltd. Australia, ACE Consultants Ltd. Bangladesh and Development Design Consultants Ltd. Bangladesh as consultants for the package number-SD2 at Tk 33.79 crore under the Dhaka Sanitation Improvement Project. Another proposal from the Local Government Engineering Department under the LGD was to appoint Nippon Koei Co. Ltd., Koei Research and Consulting Co. Ltd., Nippon Koei Bangladesh Ltd., Resource Planning and Management Consultants and BETS Consulting Services Ltd. as joint consultants at Tk 281.73 crore for the Urban Development and City Governance Project. 
                            Editor: Nurul Kabir, Published by the Chairman, Editorial Board ASM Shahidullah Khan on behalf of Media New Age Ltd.
                         



                            +8802-9632245-48                         



[email protected]
