Job Title:  Recruitment Agent – PSFU Project (Temporary Position) Several Jobs Organisation: Yalelo (U) Limited Duty Station: Kampala, Uganda   About US: Yalelo (U) Limited is a tilapia fish farm that was established in Uganda in 2019. The farm is located in Butembe, Buikwe district on the shores of Lake Victoria. Yalelo Uganda is a subsidiary of First Wave Group B.V; a Dutch company with a portfolio of aquaculture related assets in Africa. First Wave Group owns and operates Yalelo Zambia, a pioneer of Aquaculture founded in 2011 that has grown quickly to become the leading fish farm in Zambia and among the largest aquaculture farms in Africa.   Job Summary:   The Recruitment Agent will be responsible for identifying, registering, recruiting, and onboarding potential entrepreneurs/Salespersons each month that fit the target group profile as stated in the recitals using a mobile data collection form that will be shared by the Yalelo Project Team.   Key Duties and Responsibilities:  



Qualifications, Skills and Experience:    The work will involve constant movements to different locations within the assigned areas. Must be a resident in any of the following city suburbs; Kawempe, Mutungo, Nateete, Kibuye, Nansana, Ntinda, Kyambogo, Jinja, Kasangati, Kibuli, Kireka, Bulaga, Bwaise, Nabweru, and Bunamwaya.   NB: This position is temporarily available for three (03) months but renewable for outstanding performers.   How to Apply: All qualified candidates should send their applications, updated CVs and academic certificates, as one pdf document to: careers@yalelo.ug.   Deadline: 28th September 2023.    NB: Applications shall be reviewed on a rolling basis and only shortlisted candidates shall be contacted. Yalelo Uganda is an equal opportunities employer. Female candidates who meet the requirements are highly encouraged to apply. Yalelo Uganda doesn’t solicit any monies at any stage of the recruitment process.   For more of the latest jobs, please visit https://www.theugandanjobline.com or find us on our facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UgandanJobline Job Title:  Business Analyst (SA) Organisation: Deloitte Duty Station:  Kampala, Uganda  … Job Title:  Marketing Executive (No Experience Jobs) Organisation: Creative Logistics… Job Title:    Value Chain Finance Operations Officer (2 Fresher Job… Job Title:  Modern Trade Executive Organisation: HACO Industries Duty Station:… Job Title:  Business Development Officer – Film Business Organisation: Wetu… Job Title:   Assistant Administrator / Secretary (2 Fresher Job Vacancies) … 

 For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com Popular Jobs 



 Administrative Assistant NGO Jobs – GOAL Uganda
 

											6 min read										



Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More






 2 Entry-Level Oil & Gas Jobs – Assistant Coating Inspector – Sinopec (Uganda)
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More






 Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling) Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.
 

											4 min read										



Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More






 10 Sales Manager Job Positions – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More






 24 Team Leader – Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans Job Vacancies – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Team Leaders-Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans (24Read More




 Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More Job Title:  Team Leaders-Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans (24Read More   