Responding to a growing need for training in automation systems in Canada and globally, Siemens and Simon Fraser University (SFU) have announced that SFU is the first and only training facility for instructors delivering the globally recognized Level 3 Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certification program (SMSCP). Instructors, upon completion of the two-week long training will be qualified to deliver the Level 3 certification mechatronics training, vital for providing students with real-world technical skills, and helping prepare them to thrive in a high-tech world of work. Level 1 and Level 2 faculty training is provided both in-person and remotely by the Siemens Technik Academy in Nuremberg, Germany. "Simon Fraser University's School of Mechatronic Systems Engineering takes great pride in our robust partnership with Siemens,” said Dr. John Zheng Shen, Professor and Director, School of Mechatronic Systems Engineering, Simon Fraser University. “Over the past six years, our collaborative efforts have resulted in the successful training of over 100 students and industry professionals in both Level 1 and Level 2 certifications despite the significant interruptions caused by the ongoing pandemic. We are delighted to announce that, for the first time, we are offering the Level 3 SMSCP training for instructors, and we are eager to contribute to the development of the global mechatronics workforce through this initiative." Mechatronics is the interdisciplinary study of electrical, mechanical, and computing systems. Students study hands-on electrical, mechanical, and computer engineering, and explore how these disciplines are interconnected. Using a systems level approach, students develop both the applied skills and theoretical knowledge to build, troubleshoot, and support production and manufacturing. This approach to automation can improve efficiency, productivity, and quality which ultimately decreases time to market. Industries that benefit from mechatronics systems include aerospace, materials processing, machine building, automotive, transportation, building technologies, and mining. Level 3 certification is the most advanced SMSCP standing and prepares students to be skilled designers of, and experts on, complex mechatronic systems. Graduates will be able to apply selected project and system engineering practices such as requirements engineering, project management, process management, quality assurance, and management to design or improve mechatronic systems in accordance with customer and user needs. The SMSCP training lab is located at SFU’s Surrey campus and is equipped to train instructors from around the globe. “We’re thrilled to expand our mechatronics partnership with SFU from student certification to now also offering instructor training right in Canada,” said Joris Myny, Sr. VP Digital Industries, Siemens Canada. “In order to remain competitive in emerging industries such as electric vehicle batteries, we must build up advanced automation training capabilities in Canada, and the instructor training now offered at SFU enables schools to provide students with these opportunities in everything from operation to system design.” Siemens is the only global industrial company to offer the Mechatronics certification program in cooperation with partner colleges and universities throughout North America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. SFU is among a growing group of Canadian higher educational leaders in this international network of advanced technology partners in education and industry. Learn more about the SMSCP at Simon Fraser University HERE.

 Contacts for journalists: Siemens Canada
Laura Heidbuechel, Communications Specialist
Tel.:1.289.952.1600
E-mail: laura.heidbuechel@siemens.com Simon Fraser University
Dr. Amr Marzouk, Senior Lecturer and SFU SMSCP Coordinator
School of Mechatronic Systems Engineering
Tel.: 778.782.8149
E-mail: amr_marzouk@sfu.ca   About Siemens Canada Siemens Canada is a technology company focused on industry, infrastructure, transport, and healthcare. From more resource-efficient factories, resilient supply chains, and smarter buildings and grids, to cleaner and more comfortable transportation as well as advanced healthcare, the company creates technology with purpose, adding real value for customers since 1912. By combining the real and the digital worlds, Siemens empowers its customers to transform their industries and markets, to transform the everyday for billions of people. Siemens also owns a majority stake in the publicly listed company Siemens Healthineers, a globally leading medical technology provider shaping the future of healthcare. In addition, Siemens holds a minority stake in Siemens Energy, a global leader in the transmission and generation of electrical power. As of September 30, 2022, the company has approximately 4,100 employees from coast-to-coast and 33 office and production facilities across Canada. Further information is available at www.siemens.ca   About Simon Fraser University As Canada’s engaged university, SFU works with communities, organizations and partners to create, share and embrace knowledge that improves life and generates real change. We deliver a world-class education with lifelong value that shapes change-makers, visionaries and problem-solvers. We connect research and innovation to entrepreneurship and industry to deliver sustainable, relevant solutions to today’s problems. With campuses in British Columbia’s three largest cities—Vancouver, Burnaby and Surrey—SFU has eight faculties that deliver 364 undergraduate degree programs and 149 graduate degree programs to more than 37,000 students. The university now boasts more than 180,000 alumni residing in 145+ countries. Siemens Canada
1577 North Service Rd. E.
Oakville, ON
L6H0H6 Simon Fraser University
250 - 13450 102nd Avenue
Surrey, BC
V3T 0A3 Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
       School of Mechatronic Systems Engineering
250-13450  102 Avenue,
Surrey, B.C.
Canada V3T 0A3