By Rebecca Jeffrey Dr Jaclyn Bell and Aled Griffiths. Photo: Network Aviation Group Network Aviation Group has officially opened its new global headquarters in the UK. The new office is located close to London Gatwick Airport, in the heart of Crawley town centre, a 10-minute drive from the airport and a five-minute drive from the train station. Network said the office is ideally located to maintain its network of clients based in the airport region. Eagle House, situated on Crawley’s High Street, is a fusion of an existing, refurbished building alongside a new extension. The new office offers more space for workstations, separate offices, a spacious boardroom, a quiet meeting/training room, and a ‘breakout’ area for staff. The new space is designed to have a contemporary feel, and incorporates sustainability into its design. It features smart lighting as well as new recycling options and a bicycle storage area. Malcolm Higginson, Network Aviation Group’s operations director, said: “It’s been fantastic to finally settle everyone into the new office and we are sure that the new space will be well utilised and enjoyed by the entire team. “Eagle House is more than just an office space, it’s much better suited to the needs of our business and people, providing staff with a truly comfortable, modern working environment encouraging more collaborative working with the use of various teams’ areas. “The new office offers staff an expandable, open plan workspace and we look forward to what the future holds for Network at Eagle House.” To mark the opening of the office on November 17, Network welcomed around 50 guests. Dr Jaclyn Bell and Aled Griffiths, who are both ambassadors for the charity fly2help, cut the ribbon to open the newly refurbished building alongside the Group’s board of directors. This also provided the opportunity to present a cheque to fly2help for £5,000 which will help the charity support more families with aviation experiences during difficult periods in their lives. By Rebecca Jeffrey Lufthansa Cargo has added another new Boeing 777 freighter as it continues to modernise its cargo fleet and expand capacity….   Read More By Damian Brett The Schiphol air cargo community is expanding its milk run to include export volumes with the aim of reducing truck…   Read More By Damian Brett E-commerce volumes being transported through Helsinki Airport have grown rapidly over the past year following the start up of parcel…   Read More Copyright © DVV Media International Ltd All rights reserved. By viewing this site you agree to our Terms and Conditions, Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy. Website by DVV Media International Ltd. © Designed by Air Cargo News