A global network which former kickboxer and controversial social media personality Andrew Tate says he operates to uplift men allegedly teaches participants how to abuse and sexually exploit women, according to a BBC report, the latest controversy for the celebrity who has already been charged with rape and human trafficking in Romania—a set of allegations Tate has denied. Andrew Tate arrives at the Municipal Court of Bucharest, Romania, on June 21, 2023. (Photo by DANIEL ... [+] MIHAILESCU/AFP via Getty Images) The “War Room” carries an $8,000 price tag and is advertised by Tate as “a global network in which exemplars of individualism work to free the modern man from socially induced incarceration,” and offers to teach men “physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, and financial development.” A BBC investigation of leaked chat logs from War Room message boards identified 45 possible victims who were allegedly groomed into sex work by War Room members, though the report noted these numbers are likely higher as the logs reviewed were only from March 2019 to April 2020. The BBC spoke with two of these women who, despite living thousands of miles apart, told similar stories of being groomed into sex work by being subjected to violence, isolated from their social lives, forced to perform menial tasks to demonstrate subservience and manipulated through sex. There were 434 War Room members around the world as of August 2022, the BBC reported. Messages sent by "Iggy Semmelweiss," the alleged leader of the War Room, listed methods for men to gain “sole authority” over women by removing “her entire support structure from her life,” such as making her get the man’s name tattooed, forcing her to leave her hometown and recruiting more girls. A spokesperson for Tate told the BBC he is innocent and called these accusations "another brazen attempt to present one-sided, unverified" allegations against the social media personality. Tate, his brother, and two associates were indicted in Romania on charges of rape, human trafficking and organized crime in June (which he denies) following a year-long investigation, for which they are awaiting trial. Forbes reached out to a lawyer representing Tate for comment. The BBC reported last week prosecutors in the Romania case had compiled graphic evidence alleging Tate coerced women into sex. In one text message, Tate appeared to claim leadership over a business he reportedly ran in which he allegedly forced women to create pornographic content. Reported victims alleged their income from creating pornographic content was controlled and often taken by Tate and his associates, and they were coerced to create this content through physical violence and mental manipulation. In one audio transcription prepared by prosecutors, Tate’s brother Tristan said he would “slave these bitches” and make them work a minimum 10 or 12 hours per day. In other transcriptions, Andrew Tate reportedly called victims insults like "bitch" or "whore" and, in one instance, reportedly demanded a victim partake in group sex which included other women, which the victim refused to do. $5 million. That’s how much Tate and his brother make per month from War Room and Hustler’s University subscriptions, the BBC reported. Hustler’s University is Tate’s other subscription-based program which charges customers $50 per month to learn how to make income through alternative side hustles, which Tate boasts will help participants escape their nine-to-five jobs. Tate has long been a controversial social media figure because of his promotion of “traditional masculine values” and his self-described misogyny. He has said rape victims must bear responsibility for their assaults, questioned why women are able to drive, and bragged that he would hit a woman if she accused him of cheating. He’s faced legal troubles over the past year: In April 2022, Romanian authorities launched an investigation into Tate and his brother, Tristan, and reportedly raided their home after receiving a tip they were holding women captive. Tate was detained by authorities in December—his detention was repeatedly extended until he was placed on house arrest in March before ultimately being indicted in June. Tate was released from house arrest earlier this month, though he will still be subject to “judicial controls” for 60 days, which reportedly includes staying in Romania, reporting to police when ordered to and restrictions on contacting associates, alleged victims or witnesses in his case. Tate has also been accused of rape and sexual assault by four U.K. women, for which he was served legal papers in June and faces threats of civil legal proceedings from their lawyers. Tate has repeatedly denied all allegations. Despite his numerous controversies and legal troubles, some conservative personalities have come to Tate’s defense. Tucker Carlson has interviewed Tate on multiple occasions, most recently in July, in which he urged viewers to make up their own minds about Tate and his charges. Carlson posted the July interview on X, which received more than 100 million views and 430,000 likes. Tate defended himself against his charges, calling the evidence against him “weak,” and declared he is a victim of “the matrix,” an unclear force he feels governs society, which he repeatedly blames for any consequences he faces. X owner Elon Musk called the interview “interesting” in a reply. Tate’s other defenders have included Donald Trump Jr. (who called his detention in Romania “absolute insanity”), Joe Rogan and Alex Jones. Andrew Tate: Chats in 'War Room' suggest dozens of women groomed (BBC) Andrew Tate Freed From House Arrest In Romania—But Still Faces Restrictions Ahead Of Trial (Forbes) Andrew Tate And Brother Charged With Rape And Human Trafficking (Forbes) Andrew Tate’s Rape And Human Trafficking Charges Explained: A Timeline Of The Social Media Star’s Controversies (Forbes) 