published author share on The Public Relations Global Network (PRGN), a network of independent public relations and communications agencies, has appointed Andy See Teong Leng as its new president. Prior to his current role, he was the principal partner and managing director of Perspective Strategies which is an exclusive Malaysian agency that he founded 17 years ago.   As president, See will lead the global network for the next one year. The 32nd president of PRGN will be succeeding former president David Fuscus, president and CEO of Xenophon Strategies in Washington, D.C., who will now assume the duties of immediate past president and chair of PRGN’s advisory board. “I am honoured to be the first Asian and Malaysian to be entrusted with the responsibility to step up in this global leadership role. It will certainly be a new level of learning and enriching experience for my team as we work to create opportunities for members to share expertise, experience and perspectives with the goal of raising the quality of PR and communications practice around the world,” See said about his appointed. See assumes the presidency having previously served as Secretary of PRGN since April 2019 and was regional vice president for PRGN’s APAC region from 2019 to 2022. He is also active in the Malaysian PR industry body, having served as president of the Public Relations and Communications Association of Malaysia between 2018 and 2022. Don't miss: Perspective Strategies MD Andy See to lead global PR network in APAC The appointment of Andy See as president and a new slate of officers were announced at PRGN’s recent bi-annual member conference, held in Budapest, Hungary.The three-day conference involved knowledge-sharing on a wide range of economic, media, PR and agency owner topics including AI, metaverse, digitalisation, strategic communication trends and talent management. “Indeed, it is exciting to work together with PRGN members around the world as we are a community of professionals who drive innovation and push for the highest global standards in our local practice. Our initiatives to share knowledge on industry best practices and widen our global reach will ultimately benefit our clients and team members,” See explained. Related articles:PRCA names Perspective Strategies' Andy See as new presidentCarousell appoints new marketing directorR3 appoints new executive vice president with global focus share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.