UNESCO Pan-African Forum for the Culture of Peace Public access to information is a key component of UNESCO's commitment to transparency and its accountability. Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 2005 Convention ultimately provides a new framework for informed, transparent and  UNESCO’s e-Platform on intercultural dialogue is designed for organizations and individuals to learn from shared knowledge or experiences from infl Established in 2002, the GEM Report is an editorially independent report, hosted and published by UNESCO. To recovery and beyond: The report takes stock of the global progress on the adoption and implementation of legal guarantees on Access to Info Addressing culture as a global public good For almost 75 years, the UNESCO Courier has served as a platform for international debates on issues that concern the entire pla Lifelong learning is key to overcoming global challenges and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Main UNESCO website UNESCO Digital Library website. The Value of water Groundwater, making the invisible visible UNESCO Building upon UNESCO’s worldwide community of practice on ESD which was forged out of the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development in 2005, the Network aims to create synergy among members and foster cross-sectoral collaboration to support the implementation of ESD nationally, regionally, and globally.   With the deadline Education 2030 Agenda approaching, it is crucial to accelerate the implementation of Education for Sustainable Development to deliver all 17 Sustainable Development Goals. To support Member States in implementing the UNESCO Framework for the implementation of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) beyond 2019 and its Roadmap, and to follow up on the Berlin Declaration on Education to Sustainable Development (May 2021), UNESCO has established the ESD for 2030 Global Network.   The Network met in December 2023 in Tokyo to highlight country progress on education for sustainable development 18- 20 December 2023 in Tokyo, Japan Based on the success and lessons learned from the previous Global Action Programme (GAP), this network aims to facilitate the implementation of the ESD for 2030 framework and its Roadmap for implementation by enhancing knowledge sharing, collaboration, mutual learning, advocacy, monitoring, and evaluation, among a wide range of education stakeholders including governmental agencies, civil society organizations, educators, youth, research institutions, UN entities, and international development partners.  While the Network is broad and open, there will be some specific groups to be established as follows: No. ESD-Net 2030 activities will be open to all who engage and implement ESD programmes and projects. Yes. Any existing networks and associations are welcome to share and work with UNESCO and the ESD-Net 2030 members to strengthen collaboration, knowledge sharing and mutual learning. The ESD for 2030 Network provides opportunities for exchange and collaboration among education authorities and professionals, youth, researchers, etc. through activities structured around four pillars. Knowledge sharing & mutual learning will generate new knowledge and understanding on latest issues and trends and provide peer-to-peer learning opportunities of ESD for 2030. Global advocacy and policymaking will draw attention to ESD’s on-going contributions to addressing sustainability issues by securing commitments from local, national, regional, and international actors to facilitate and implement ESD. Collaboration will facilitate dialogue, partnership and collaboration and put in place collaborative projects and activities among partners. The learning webinars focus on providing concrete and practical ESD activities in line with the five priority action areas outlined in the ESD for 2030 Roadmap. The five priority action areas are: advancing policy; transforming learning environments; building capacities of educators; empowering and mobilizing youth; and accelerating local level action. 26 September 2024 This session on Learning, teaching and assessment for ESD competencies will address how ESD learning competencies can be included into learning content and outcomes, pedagogy, assessment and the learning environment.  28 March 2024 This session on local and indigenous knowledge in education for sustainable development (ESD) will explore how traditional and cultural practices and community-based approaches are integrated into teaching and learning to foster environmental stewardship, social equity, and resilience among present and future generations in Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean. 21 September 2023 This session featured four organizations – the Office of Climate Education (OCE); the United Nations University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability (UNU-IAS)y; the Media Development Center (MDC) at Birzeit University, Palestine; World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Greece – who delivered workshops covering a broad array of topics ranging from effective climate change education, using ‘design thinking’ to help students create carbon-neutral schools, community-based ESD for sustainable consumption, and strengthening media and information literacy of teachers. 31 May 2023 The session featured four distinct organizations – Soneva Namoona Non-Governmental Organization; Global Schools Program, Sustainable Development Solutions Network; World’s Largest Lesson, Project Everyone; World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Sweden/Kenya – who delivered workshops covering a broad array of topics ranging from personal leadership, ESD in primary education, inspiring a generation of global goals innovators, to embedding climate education in schools and municipalities.  30 March 2023 This event featured four organizations working to bring ESD practices to life in various settings across the world. Each organization carried out a short workshop delivered by facilitators from a diversity of contexts.  4 October 2022 This Webinar brought Member States, strategic partners and education stakeholders together to strengthen support for the implementation of ESD for 2030. Selected countries from across globe who presented their experiences and lessons learned on how they have prepared or are preparing their own country initiative - a country plan on how to map, mobilize and create synergies among ESD related national stakeholders. This webinar also highlighted the unique role of the cultural sector in mainstreaming ESD.  Explore initiatives on education for sustainable development implemented throughout the world