At Special Hearts Farm, an agricultural-based job-training center for adults with intellectual disabilities, visitors can find fresh eggs, blackberry jelly and scented goat-milk soap for sale, but Devin Brooks found self-confidence. “I speak up when I have ideas and concerns,” said Brooks, 29, who enrolled in farm programs about three years ago and shed a slow-learner label that she had carried in public school. “I feel like I have purpose.” Incorporated in 2017 by two Orange County school teachers and parents of adult children with special needs, the farm also provides work experience and volunteer opportunities at the former Maxey Elementary School campus in Winter Garden for about 60 clients, who “aged-out” of special-education services at 22 years old. Clients learn livestock care, woodworking, gardening and how to make soap using goat milk. Brooks stood before Orange County commissioners several weeks ago and lobbied for a zoning change Special Hearts Farm needs to build a new 15-acre campus with client housing on Jones Avenue near Mount Dora. “It’s getting a little cramped,” she said of the snug 3 acres in Winter Garden. With a waiting list for clients, Special Hearts has an ambitious expansion plan and nearly $5.4-million in state funding, said co-founder Kathy Meena, but operators of a larger farm surrounding the proposed site have objected. “I have the unfortunate role of having to oppose some great people I think highly of. But I think it’s incompatible in terms of what we’re doing with our property,” said Ryan Atwood, a partner in H & A Farms, a 525-acre agri-business. He described H & A as blueberry, strawberry and sod growers. Special Hearts’ expansion requires a zoning change at the new site, a former chicken farm acquired in October 2021 for $899,000, because the organization intends to build one-story, dormitory-style housing for up to 50 clients. Meena said housing is critical to Special Hearts’ future, offering a safety net for clients likely to outlive aging, caretaker parents. But the residential component is troubling to H & A’s Michael Hill. He said H & A produces about 40% of the state’s blueberries, using chemical applications, firing air cannons to keep birds away from the berries, and employing other strategies “not conducive to the enjoyment of residential housing.” While Hill called Special Hearts Farm “a phenomenal project,” he objected nonetheless. “I just want to go on record that we’ve been farming it and we can’t change the way we farm,” Hill told the zoning panel. “I can just potentially see there being issues with having residents on the property.” Special Hearts’ housing component may create another hurdle. No sewers serve the site so the not-for-profit wants a waiver of county septic regulations. In a letter to county officials, land-use attorney Rebecca Wilson objected on behalf of H &A, alleging “the large-capacity on-site septic system contemplated by [Special Hearts Farm] creates a substantial risk of contamination of the groundwater that H&A uses for irrigation which would adversely impact H&A’s property and operation. …” She said septic was inappropriate for a protected area like the Lake Apopka Basin. Meena said the farm will ensure its system is safe for clients and the environment. The farm’s mission is to “provide a meaningful day,” Meena said. Clients spend their time with friends, learning, working and sometimes volunteering for other community service agencies like Meals On Wheels, which delivers meals to disabled or homebound older adults. “I am so happy I have this special farm to go to every day,” said Jason Carmichael, 23. He said he likes most things about the farm — riding the bus, “Pizza Fridays,” working with the goats and ducks, and sweeping the barn, even though it means scooping poop, his least favorite chore. shudak@orlandosentinel.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.