
Support La Croix International and high-quality journalism
 
Enjoy unlimited access to La Croix International
 The birth of Jesus, who is considered a Palestinian and prophet in Islam, offers a moment of peace and hope, uniting the hearts of Christians, Muslims and all Palestinians December is a month not to be missed in Bethlehem. When two billion Christians turn their eyes to the most famous city in Palestine, it's all about looking good. The communications department at City Hall has been working at full speed, especially since December 4 marked the 150th anniversary of the founding of the Bethlehem Municipality. But the one date that stood out in particular on the municipal calendar was the December 3 lighting of the Christmas tree in Manger Square, which is located between the mosque and the basilica. It’s also where the annual Christmas market is held. The tree lighting was preceded by speeches, dances and songs. This year, residents of Bethlehem were excited to welcome Nomcebo Zikode, the South African singer and songwriter who gained international fame in the summer 2020 with her smash hit Jerusalema. Before a row of bishops and priests of all denominations and in front of all the civil and military authorities of the governorate, she fired up the crowd every time she mentioned the name Palestine. Most people who live in the Palestinian Territories cannot easily reach Bethlehem, even though it is only 9 kilometers away. Like every other year, Manger Square was packed with people and, also like every other year, most of them were Muslims. This is true in all West Bank cities that light a Christmas tree. The reason is that there are not many opportunities to celebrate. It’s the only time when you can see a firework display and witness the magic of lights. And it is not just little kids who look at the display with childlike eyes. Islam considers Jesus. And residents of the West Bank, whether Muslim or Christian, consider him Palestinian like them. They do not deny his Jewishness, it is just consciously concealed. The Sun of Justice, the Prince of Peace is a child of this land, a son of this village. This is where his mother nursed him, this is where he experienced persecution, this is where he had to flee under pressure from the soldiers, even though he was able to return. A prophet in Islam, he is also seen as a prophet of the Palestinian cause. How can we not celebrate him and the woman who gave birth to him? The Virgin Mary also has a place of honor, and Muslim women do not hesitate to ask her for favors when they go to the Grotto of the Nativity or to the "Milk Grotto". Palestinian Christians appreciate these annual signs of respect. And Palestinian Muslims are proud to be ambassadors to the world and their fellow believers at this time of year. It is also an opportunity to take advantage of the media attention and witness to the the difficulties they must endure in their land surrounded by walls and deprivation. Whatever the tensions that may arise from time to time between Christians and Muslims, all welcome this moment of mutual appreciation, because this Jesus was, like them, a child of Palestine — which was, after all, the name of the Roman province at the time of his birth. He comes with the great virtue of offering them a truce, a suspended moment where the most important thing is not the battle for survival, but hope. Marie-Armelle Beaulieu is editor-in-chief of Terre Sainte Magazine.    