Get your iron paradise ready for the new year.  Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? RIGHT NOW is the best time of the year to take advantage of your home gym. The cold weather may keep us from getting out for a morning run or an afternoon workout class, but with a quality home setup the frigid temps will never take our gains. If you're looking to upgrade your home gym equipment we have good news. The after-Christmas sales are already starting to hit and tons of deals are happening on everything from treadmills to rowing machines, to adjustable dumbbells and power racks. Now is the time to outfit your iron paradise as we roll into the new year. One of the retailers we've got our eyes on for home gym equipment is Dick's Sporting Goods. The trusted retailer is currently moving inventory to make room for new arrivals, and the amount of hidden gem deals ahead of Christmas is already garnering serious attention. A couple of our favorite deals at the moment include a Horizon Fitness 7.0AT Studio Series Treadmill (50% off) and a ProForm Carbon Strength Power Rack (56% off). If you're searching for a piece of equipment that will save on space and provide versatility, we also found a rare deal on a ProForm Carbon Power Tower (50% off) that's almost too good to pass up. Read more: Best Compression Recovery Boots No matter what you're wanting to add to your home gym, these year-end deals at Dick's Sporting Goods have something for every individual. But time is of the essence here, so make sure to secure what you like ASAP or risk the chances of it selling out.  SHOP ALL FITNESS GEAR ON SALE HERE Shop Amazon's August Home Gym Equipment Sale Looking at Rowing Machines? This One Takes Gold. Get Fit at Home With These Rowing Machines The Gym Gear Jackman Used to Be Wolverine Again The Best Home Gym Storage, Tested by Fitness Eds  Curved Treadmills That Can Up Your Training Game The 5 Best Exercise Bikes for Your Home Gym Shop Amazon's June Home Gym Equipment Sale Shop Amazon's May Home Gym Equipment Sale One of the Best Dumbbells We’ve Tested Is On Sale Our Favorite Hydrow Rower Is Under $2000 Right Now Shop Amazon's Spring Home Gym Equipment Sale A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.