Life / 
	Arts EEAMA theatre ensemble kicks off the season with George Dialegmenos’ play after a pandemic-imposed break. The EEAMA Troupe has been entertaining the community for seventy years 
                            The EEAMA ensemble on stage. All photos: Supplied                         
1 March 2023 4:48pm
 The theatre ensemble of The League of Greeks of Egypt and Middle East (EEAMA) returns this year bringing several experienced performers on stage under Michalis Nikoloudis’ direction. Nikoloudis, has worked at the State Theatre of Northern Greece (KTHVE) for eleven years as an actor while he has also directed Greek language plays in Australia with the Laiki Stage, Greek Theatre Australis (ETH), Parikia Theatre and EEAMA. A team of actors will try to take the audience back in time to other eras by bringing to life an array of successive comic scenes. Among the cast, Yiota Argyropoulou who has been involved in theatre and television since 1975 and has taken part in many performances with various community theatre companies. She will be joined by Nikos Veligos, a member of an amateur company in Syros, where he performed in many shows as well as in the local theatre and Mary Vlachopoulou. Thomas Hadjilepos, a graduate of the Drama School of Roula Paterakis in Thessaloniki also known from TV series such as “The Slap”, will take to the stage, bringing years of performance experience to “Hasame ti Theia” alongside George Katsourakis, Nelly Kougra, Christianna Fanariti, and Rena Fragiadaki. In the play set in the 1950s, a couple, Thanasis and Urania, look after their auntie and wait till her passing so they might inherit her property, in the hopes of changing their miserable lives. But will the inheritance go to them? Or is an unexpected recipient entering the scene? Following her death, masks come off and comical scenes alternate with dramatic moments. When: From Saturday, 4 March at 6.30pm till Sunday, 26 March (the play is on every weekend). Where: South Oakleigh Theatre, Bakers Road, South Oakleigh, ΩΙΨ For bookings call 0423 235 495