The Kentucky Derby isn’t just a famous horse race, it’s also a nonstop fashion show. Since its inception in 1875, the annual event has become synonymous with bold dresses, pastel seersuckers, and a sea of over-the-top headwear. The Real Housewives of Atlanta’s Sanya Richards-Ross got a first-hand look at this year’s ensembles when she served as a fashion/lifestyle reporter alongside NBC News’ Dylan Dreyer. And, of course, she completely nailed the derby aesthetic. The four-time Olympic gold medalist kicked off the weekend in a light pink midcalf dress with a square neckline, capped sleeves, and an all-over floral pattern. Sanya rounded out the charming look with a pair of metallic strappy heels and a gorgeous matching headpiece by Derby Dianas, a millinery shop located in Louisville, Kentucky. “Today at the [Kentucky Derby] we wear pink,” she captioned an Instagram of the Day 1 outfit, “and as always, rock incredible fascinators.”      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Sanya Richards-Ross (@sanyarichiross) It was clear Sanya wasn’t the only one who got the pink memo. The spring-ready color completely dominated the weekend, as it appeared in sundresses, hats, and even men's suiting. Sanya and Drew noted that pink has been a longtime staple in Kentucky Derby fashion, but was taken to a whole new level in 2023. “We expected pink, but what we didn’t expect was so much hot pink,” Sanya said during a style report segment. “It’s been a really beautiful trend to see all the women rocking their hot pink … We’re so used to men traditionally being in black suits, blue suits, but not today. Men get a chance to express themselves in pink suits, and I live for it.” Sanya returned on Day 2 with more stunning looks. One was a below-the-knee floral dress with a structured fan neckline and cascading ruffle details. She accessorized the outfit with a gold watch and dainty earrings, as well as an extravagant Derby Dianas fascinator that matched the red and blue garment. Photo: On Her Turf/Instagram  Her second ’fit of the day was a longer marigold dress with a pink floral design, capped sleeves, a plunging V-neck, and a dramatic leg slit. The piece was completed with gold heels and a yellow Derby Dianas headpiece. “What’s better [than] one look… TWO!” Sanya wrote on Instagram. “The [Kentucky Derby] delivered again. If you’ve never been, you’ve got to add it to your bucket list.”      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Sanya Richards-Ross (@sanyarichiross) Each look was put together by Ryan Christopher, an Atlanta-based stylist who has worked with celebrities like Mo’Nique, Ts Madison, Da Brat, and RHOA’s Kandi Burruss.     Style & Living     Sanya reflected on her derby experience in a May 7 Instagram story just hours before the RHOA Season 15 premiere. “I’m officially signing off from the Kentucky Derby today, headed out. I had such a good time!” she said. “If you've never been to the derby, I'm telling you, you're missing out. It's so much fun! … Oh, and happy premiere day!” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.