Kourtney Kardashian-Barker had us in her feels this weekend when she announced, in *the* most adorable way, that she was pregnant with husband Travis Barker. Specifically, on Saturday ( 17 June) Kourt shared a video to Instagram of herself attending a Blink-182 gig (Travis is the drummer in the band) and holding up a sign saying "TRAVIS I'M PREGNANT". The touching public statement came after the couple's marriage in 2022 and their important, candid discussions about struggling to conceive. Kourtney has three children with former partner Scott Disick while Travis also has three children with his ex-wife, Shanna Moakler. This is the reality star's first pregnancy with Travis. Kourtney used her platform on The Kardashians to discuss her journey with IVF and some of the struggles her and her partner had experienced. "We are officially done with IVF," she said in a confessional. "We would love a baby more than anything, but I really believe in what God has in store for us. If that's a baby, I believe it will happen." Now, the couple's joy is palpable as they share their pregnancy news with the world. Following on from Saturday's post, Kourtney shared an Instagram post with the caption "Overwhelmed with gratitude and joy for God’s blessing and plan" and displaying new baby bump pictures. The pics also gave us insight into what we may be able to expect from Kourtney's maternity style to come. Specifically, she rocked the naked dressing trend in a sheer, black bodysuit with high-rise leg and paired it with a pair of low-rise leather trousers. Hair-wise, she looked amazing with a tousled bob. Seriously iconic! You Might Also Like A ranking of the very best hair straighteners - according to our Beauty Editors Best party dresses to shop in the UK right now 11 products you'd be mad to miss from the Net A Porter beauty sale New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others.