 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, The Hollywood Reporter may receive an affiliate commission.  Andy Cohen famously gets the stars to spill the beans on Watch What Happens Live and the Real Housewives (and Vanderpump Rules) reunions, but the TV host is baring all for a new campaign in honor of National Skin Cancer Awareness Month. More from The Hollywood Reporter 'Vanderpump Rules' Star Ariana Madix Reveals First Look at Lifetime Movie Role Amid Scandoval Drama Scandoval Timeline "Evolves" in Final Reunion Episode, 'Vanderpump Rules' EP Says Following Scandoval, 'Vanderpump Rules' Star Ariana Madix Is Turning Her Relationship Distress Into Dollars Cohen stripped down for a nude black-and-white photo last week to help promote the importance of sun safety and skin protection. Baring his buff bod and washboard abs to his 5.2 million followers, The Daddy Diaries author teamed up with skin-care brand EltaMD (which is on sale during Amazon’s Summer Beauty Haul event) to remind people “to wear sunscreen and #GetNaked…for a skin check with your dermatologist.” Related: The Best Sunscreens Recommended by Hollywood Insiders The campaign and hashtag are tongue-in-cheek of course, but Cohen has a personal connection to the cause, having been diagnosed with melanoma back in 2016. As part of the new partnership, EltaMD will be making in-kind donations to the Melanoma Research Foundation up to a $100,000 value. EltaMD is one of the most popular sunscreen brands online, with its UV Clear Sunscreen boasting a 4.7-star rating (out of five) from more than 36,000 verified reviews. Their latest release — unveiled as part of Cohen’s campaign — is EltaMD’s UV AOX Mist SPF 40, a sheer sunscreen spray packed with antioxidants to help refresh the skin and prevent signs of aging. The spray bottle also uses what EltaMD calls “air-powered technology” to provide 360-degree coverage no matter what angle you’re aiming it at. EltaMD’s sunscreens are currently a number-one best-seller on Amazon, and the brand is dermatologist-recommended as well.  Price:  $41.00 $32.80    Buy On Amazon  “Andy Cohen has been a vocal figure on the importance of sun safety due to his personal experience with melanoma, making him a natural fit for this partnership,” says Echo Sandburg, chief brand officer of CP Skin Health Group (EltaMD’s parent company). “We hope this encourages individuals to schedule a skin check with their dermatologist and wear sunscreen every day from head to toe.” This isn’t Cohen’s first time stripping down for a photo. He famously struck the same pose for photographer Spencer Tunick in 1994, and EltaMD hired Tunick to helm this new campaign, almost 30 years later. With the summer season approaching, sun safety is more important than ever. The latest stats reveal more than five million cases of skin cancer are detected in the United States each year, and more people are diagnosed with skin cancer than all other cancers combined. Skin cancer also hits home for many, with one in five Americans diagnosed with skin cancer by the age of 70. Best of The Hollywood Reporter Hollywood’s 25 Most Powerful Stylists: Why Sydney Sweeney, Sadie Sink, Anne Hathaway, Angela Bassett and Jodie Turner-Smith Love Their Image Makers The Environmental Cost of Red Carpet Fashion Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.