Congrats, Florida! Of all the beaches to hang out in your birthday suit, two of yours made a very special list for 2023: Best nude beach in the world. Did we say this was a global list? And is there a screen T-shirt we can buy for bragging rights? (Really!) The swimwear brand Pour Moi ("for me" in French) released its best nude beaches in the world list for 2023 in May. Miami's Haulover Beach, where they like to say "Dare to go bare," finished on top ahead of nude beaches in Brazil, Spain and Greece. Someone from Pour Moi needs to get a Key to the City from the Miami mayor. And this news gets better, because a second Florida nude beach was recognized. Coming in at No. 20 is Playalinda Beach in Brevard County aka the Space Coast. Though Playalinda gets attention for being naked-friendly, this beach is among the top spots to watch a rocket launch from nearby Kennedy Space Center or Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Brevard. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Only one other nude beach in the US made the list: San Francisco's Baker Beach. Naked biking is a thing, too:Naked bike riding: Florida among bottom of the list. Details about public nudity, bicycling in the buff A whole lot of naked:Nude cyclists meet up at World Naked Bike Ride, Philly Naked Bike Ride & clothing-optional events Here are five things to know about Haulover Beach. WHAT THEY ARE SAYING ABOUT HAULOVER BEACH: "So, if you forgot to pack a suit- no problem! Or, if you're looking to get some sun without any tan lines, well, this is the place for you." − Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau What about Florida's non-nude beaches?:Take that, Hawaii! This Florida beach tops Dr. Beach's Top 10 list for 2023 Here are five things to know about Playalinda Beach, which is on the border of Brevard and Volusia counties. Note, nudity is prohibited in Brevard County, so if you want to bare all at Playalinda, you have to go to the northern part of the beach. WHAT THEY ARE SAYING ABOUT PLAYALINDA BEACH: "Despite what you may have heard and read, there is no official nude beach at Playalinda. However, what you’ll see is another matter." − Florida Hikes Yes. Visit Florida compiled a list of top nude beaches in the Sunshine State: *Playalinda is on the Volusia and Brevard county lines. The Visit Florida article states nudity is prohibited in Brevard. Is public indecency a crime in Florida? According to Florida Statues Section 800.03, (1) A person commits unlawful exposure of sexual organs by:(a) Exposing or exhibiting his or her sexual organs in public or on the private premises of another, or so near thereto as to be seen from such private premises, in a vulgar or indecent manner; or(b) Being naked in public in a vulgar or indecent manner.(2)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or s. 775.083.(b) A second or subsequent violation of this section is a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082, s. 775.083, or s. 775.084.(3) The exposure of sexual organs by any of the following does not violate this section:(a) A mother breastfeeding her baby; or(b) An individual who is merely naked at any place provided or set apart for that purpose. Swimwear company Pour Moi compiled a list of the best nude beaches in the world. The company said the metrics used to arrive at this ranking relied on Google review data at beaches where nude sunbathing is allowed, including average review score and the overall number of reviews. 