Wednesday, October 25, 2023 Although most voters expect to watch next month’s debate among Republican presidential candidates in Miami, more than half of GOP voters agree with a suggestion that the Republican National Committee should cancel “all future debates.” The latest Rasmussen Reports national telephone and online survey finds that 55% of Likely U.S. Voters are likely to watch the November 8 Republican debate, including 26% who are Very Likely to watch it. Forty-two percent (42%) they’re unlikely to watch the next GOP debate, including 21% who are Not At All Likely to watch it. Two-thirds (66%) of Republican voters are at least somewhat likely to watch the debate in Miami. (To see survey question wording, click here.) Please sign up for the Rasmussen Reports daily e-mail update (it’s free) or follow us on Facebook. Let us keep you up to date with the latest public opinion news. The survey of 992 U.S. Likely Voters was conducted on October 18-19 and 20, 2023 by Rasmussen Reports. The margin of sampling error is +/- 3 percentage points with a 95% level of confidence. Field work for all Rasmussen Reports surveys is conducted by Pulse Opinion Research. Become a Rasmussen Reader to read the article Have an account? Become a Reader Sign up: Free daily newsletter Rasmussen Reports is a media company specializing in the collection, publication and distribution of public opinion information. We conduct public opinion polls on a variety of topics to inform our audience on events in the news and other topics of interest. To ensure editorial control and independence, we pay for the polls ourselves and generate revenue through the sale of subscriptions, sponsorships, and advertising. Nightly polling on politics, business and lifestyle topics provides the content to update the Rasmussen Reports web site many times each day. If it's in the news, it's in our polls. Additionally, the data drives a daily update newsletter and various media outlets across the country. Some information, including the Rasmussen Reports daily Presidential Tracking Poll and commentaries are available for free to the general public. Subscriptions are available for $4.95 a month or 34.95 a year that provide subscribers with exclusive access to more than 20 stories per week on upcoming elections, consumer confidence, and issues that affect us all. For those who are really into the numbers, Platinum Members can review demographic crosstabs and a full history of our data. To learn more about our methodology, click here. President Biden's approval numbers posted every weekday Sign up: Free daily newsletter