NFL The NFL playoffs start Saturday without a clear-cut favorite. Do you like the Chiefs and Patrick Mahomes? How could you bet against the Bills after these last two weeks? Is 49ers coach Kyle Shanahan really a wizard? There’s a lot to digest, so we’ve tried to break it down into digestible nuggets here with the help of advanced analytics from TruMedia. Advertisement Here are our playoff power rankings from 1 to 14: 14-3, AFC No. 1 seed Statistically, the Bills are a better overall team, but the Chiefs offense is so good it doesn’t matter. Kansas City, which shipped off star wide receiver Tyreek Hill to Miami in the offseason, has a total offensive EPA of 176.25, almost twice that of second-place Buffalo. The only team in the last five seasons to top that number is the 2018 Chiefs. Patrick Mahomes, the league’s individual leader in EPA (180.98), is 30-4 with a passer rating of 103 after October the last three seasons. New story. At age 27, Patrick Mahomes is the AFC's "old head," the oldest quarterback in the playoffs who also just happens to have the most postseason experience. On why Mahomes' continual growth could be a pivotal theme for the Chiefs later this month.https://t.co/FTX69iYLYR — Nate Taylor (@ByNateTaylor) January 11, 2023  13-3, AFC No. 2 seed The Bills are second in the NFL in points scored (28.44 per game) and points allowed (17.88). No other team in the league has both units in the top five. Buffalo hasn’t lost by more than three points in a game this season. It hasn’t lost at all since Nov. 13. And it hasn’t been held below 30 points in a month. On top of that, the Bills are entering these playoffs on an emotional high because of Damar Hamlin’s remarkable recovery and this week’s news that safety Micah Hyde (neck) could return during the postseason. 13-4, NFC No. 2 seed Brock Purdy, the No. 262 pick in the 2022 NFL Draft, is not just the only rookie quarterback in these playoffs. He’s the only undefeated quarterback in these playoffs, having won all five starts since taking over for the injured Jimmy Garoppolo. Purdy is second in the league in EPA per play behind Mahomes at 0.19, and since he took over the starting job, San Francisco leads the NFL with 33.6 points per game and is second in offensive EPA (32.17). Purdy is no fluke, and the 49ers defense is the best in the league by EPA (114.98), too. This team has won 10 straight for a reason. Advertisement 12-4, AFC No. 3 seed The Bengals have won 10 of 11, giving them the NFL’s best winning percentage since Week 6. The reason is quarterback Joe Burrow, who is second in the league in passer rating (105.9) and passing yards (3,159) in that time. The defense enters the postseason on a roll, too. Cincinnati is second among playoff teams in turnover margin since Week 15. In last year’s playoffs, coordinator Lou Anarumo’s defense forced nine turnovers, the same number it forced in the last month of this season. No playoff team had more in that time. 14-3, NFC No. 1 seed The Eagles haven’t looked like Super Bowl contenders in a while. Philadelphia has beaten only one playoff team since Oct. 16, and that’s the Giants twice. Quarterback Jalen Hurts missed weeks 16 and 17 because of a sprained SC joint and was “hurting bad” after returning for the regular-season finale, coach Nick Sirianni said. In his last two games, one before his injury and one after, Hurts has been off target on 16.2 percent and 14.3 percent of his throws. Also banged up: right tackle Lane Johnson, who is planning to come back from an abductor tear but might not be at full strength. The bye will help this team but maybe not enough. 10-7, AFC No. 5 seed The Chargers’ chances in the next month hinge on the injury report. Wide receiver Mike Williams (back) did not practice Tuesday or Wednesday but could return by Saturday. Edge rusher Joey Bosa (core, groin) is back, and offensive lineman Rashawn Slater (biceps) was designated to return from injured reserve Tuesday, meaning he could get back if the Chargers can make a run. They could because of quarterback Justin Herbert, who has a higher completion percentage (68.2 percent) than Mahomes and more passing yards (4,739) than Burrow this season. Throw in some defense — coach Brandon Staley has shown the ability to bottle up the Kansas City passing game and the San Francisco running game at times this season — and maybe there’s something here. 13-4, NFC No. 3 seed Minnesota is the league’s most inexplicable assemblage. Since 2000, 57 teams have won 13 or more games in the regular season. The lowest point differential among those teams until the Vikings came along was plus-63 (the 2019 Packers). Minnesota’s point differential is minus-3. Football Outsiders’ weighted DVOA (defense-adjusted value over average weighted to value end-of-season performance more highly) ranks the Vikings 28th in the league. Three of the four teams behind them fired their head coach. 12-5, NFC No. 5 seed Quarterback Dak Prescott has thrown more interceptions than any quarterback in the league (15) despite playing in only 12 games. He’s thrown at least one pick in the last seven games and totaled 11 in that time. Only eight other quarterbacks have thrown that many this season. Dallas has the second-highest defensive EPA per 100 snaps of any playoff team (8.4), but that will only matter so much if Prescott can’t protect the ball. Advertisement 9-8, AFC No. 4 seed If there’s a true dark horse in this playoff field, it’s the Jaguars. They have won six of their last seven. They are 10th in the league in scoring (23.76 ppg) and 12th in points allowed (20.39) and have a playoff-tested coach in Doug Pederson. Since Week 12, second-year quarterback Trevor Lawrence has a passer rating of 103.4, which is third among starters and higher than Mahomes in that span. If Lawrence can cut out some of his bad misses and get hot, the Jaguars could, too. 10-7, AFC No. 6 seed Lamar Jackson (knee) missed another practice Wednesday, and ESPN reported it’s unlikely he’ll play against the Bengals on Sunday. The Ravens averaged 23.75 points per game with Jackson starting (12th in the league) and 13 per game without him starting (31st in the league). Backup quarterback Tyler Huntley (shoulder, wrist) might not be available either. This Ravens defense (14th in defensive EPA, 25.51) can’t carry that kind of weight. Lamar Jackson again not practicing for Ravens. It’s been 38 days since he was last taking part in game or practice. Tyler Huntley was on field but again not throwing with his sore shoulder. — Jeff Zrebiec (@jeffzrebiec) January 11, 2023  8-9, NFC No. 4 seed The only reason this Tampa Bay team has any shot is Tom Brady. The ageless one broke his own NFL records for attempts and completions this season, but the Buccaneers aren’t good. They won the NFC South with a losing record and are 25th in the NFL in weighted DVOA. Since 2000, only seven teams have made the playoffs with a point differential worse than Tampa Bay’s minus-45. 9-8, NFC No. 7 seed A lot of teams are coming into this postseason hot. These Seahawks are not. Seattle is 2-3 in its last five and hasn’t beaten a team with a winning record since Oct. 30. Quarterback Geno Smith was one of the NFL’s feel-good stories through the first two-thirds of the season but hasn’t looked great lately. Smith had a passer rating of 108.7 through Week 13. Since, it’s 83.9, including a 65.7 in the season finale against a bad Rams team. 9-7, NFC No. 6 seed Another team limping into the playoffs, New York hasn’t beaten a playoff team since Oct. 23. After starting the season 7-2, the Giants ran out of gas and coasted to a 3-5-1 record down the stretch. New York is 11th in offensive EPA (22.86) but 28th in defensive EPA (minus-27.51). The only teams worse on defense this year were the Falcons, Raiders, Lions and Bears. There are only so many fake punts Brian Daboll can call. 9-8, AFC No. 7 seed No Tua, no chance, and it looks like there won’t be any Tua. Coach Mike McDaniel said Wednesday that quarterback Tua Tagovailoa won’t be cleared from the concussion protocol in time to play this weekend. The fact anyone is even considering Tagovailoa might come back this year after two stints on the concussion protocol is troubling, but at least common sense has prevailed for now. Rookie Skylar Thompson is expected to start this weekend. (Top photo of Patrick Mahomes and  Kadarius Toney:  David Eulitt / Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Josh Kendall , a Georgia native, has been following the Falcons since Jeff Van Note was the richly bearded face of the franchise. For 20 years before joining The Athletic NFL staff, he covered football in the SEC. He also covers golf for The Athletic. Follow Josh on Twitter @JoshTheAthletic