Thousands of agricultural workers live in or migrate to Ohio to work in its number one industry, Agriculture. These workers are often an afterthought, stuck in the background, and we aim to bring their stories to the forefront. Not of the people calling the shots but those who toil in the fields and harvest the food we eat, those who care for livestock and work in dairies. We want to know why they do this backbreaking work, how they got into the industry, and their hopes and dreams. We also seek to explore the dangers of these occupations and the history of worker protections in agriculture, especially those of farmworkers and foreign agricultural workers. 
December 26, 2023 • Hosts Gwen and Wendy share clips from an interview with 'Lou,' a former farmworker, to shed light on Ohio's shifting landscape of agricultural labor. As Lou shares his experiences as an undocumented farmworker, Gwen interviews Wendy about the transition from undocumented agricultural workers to H-2A visa workers, the hierarchy among different agricultural workers, and the impact of increased immigration enforcement.
         
November 14, 2023 • Meet Jose Salinas and learn about the considerations migrant children (and their families, school administrators, and communities) are confronted with in their pursuit of education. Jose was a child farmworker and followed a migratory path, or migrant stream, while growing up. This impacted his educational experiences and he now works as the director of the Ohio Migrant Education Center (OMEC), making sure that kids in similar situations have the tools and support to receive a full education. To learn more about OMEC, visit omecohio.org.
         
October 24, 2023 • This episode showcases Juan Becerra. Born in Texas to a long line of farmworkers, Juan grew up doing farmwork as a child. There was a lack of stability in his childhood, and this work's migratory nature eventually brought him to Ohio. Here, he would eventually join the U.S. Army - which gave him more stability in life. After serving in Vietnam, Juan encourages others to stand up for what is right and stop injustices around us, including ensuring farmworkers have their basic needs taken care of.
         
October 24, 2023 • This episode showcases Juan Becerra. Born in Texas to a long line of farmworkers, Juan grew up doing farmwork as a child. There was a lack of stability in his childhood, and this work's migratory nature eventually brought him to Ohio. Here, he would eventually join the U.S. Army - which gave him more stability in life. After serving in Vietnam, Juan encourages others to stand up for what is right and stop injustices around us, including ensuring farmworkers have their basic needs taken care of.
         
September 26, 2023 • After listening to interviews from Dr. Anisa Kline's research, Wendy and Gwen highlight some unique day-to-day nuances for H-2A workers. Topics include housing, shopping, mobility, and preparation. To read Dr. Kline's report, Latino H-2A Workers and Their Importance for Ohio's Agricultural Industries, go to: https://ochla.ohio.gov/static/LCR%27s/Latino%20H2A%20Workers_DIGITAL.pdf
         
August 29, 2023 • Ohio farmworker Jaime finds agency by sharing his story. Since Jaime started working as an H-2A worker 23 years ago, his work experience has deteriorated significantly. Conditions have gotten so bad that despite the risk of employer retaliation, Jaime decided to take his turn to share his story.
         
August 8, 2023 • In this premier episode of Farmworker Chronicles, Wendy and Gwen introduce themselves and provide basic information about the focus of this podcast - farmworkers! Get to know your hosts, some of the impact farmworkers have in Ohio, and the work farmworkers do daily to ensure we have food on our shelves. Oh, and don't forget to thank a farmworker!
         Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor