Navan mother-of-three Sarah Lane has spoken of how beneficial the new Lymphoedema Clinic has been in helping her manage her condition which developed following cancer treatment for melanoma skin cancer. "Six years ago I was diagnosed with melanoma skin cancer. I had a spot on my upper back that was removed and the results came back as malignant melanoma. To see if it had spread, I had to have more surgery on my back and a sentinel lymph node biopsy in the underarm. It had spread to some lymph nodes and more surgery was carried out. In the space of eight months the cancer had returned, requiring more surgery and 35 rounds of radiation – all contained in that area under my arm pit. "I was told of the risks and possible chance of lymphoedema and I was provided with a compression sleeve to wear, especially when on a plane. Three years ago, I first noticed swelling in my arm. It would feel heavy and the skin would feel tight. I had a couple of appointments with an Occupational Therapist (OT), but it continued to get worse. "When Covid hit, all OT services were stopped and it was hard for me to get to see someone for treatment. This affected me hugely – my arm was getting worse. I found it really difficult getting clothes to fit. Even little things like drying my hair was tough and I had to get my wedding bands sized up because of it. Also, I’m a hairdresser and having lymphoedema in my arm forced me to retire. I’m 39 – I’m too young to retire and hairdressing is all I know. "Earlier this year, when I was getting bloods done – as I’m still currently on treatment due to the melanoma – my nurse showed me a leaflet about this new lymphoedema clinic in Summerhill. I just needed to be referred by my GP. We both filled in the forms and sent it off. I got a call the next day and made an appointment. "I was so happy to be able to finally see someone and get a treatment plan in place.  I met Thelma, a Lymphoedema therapist, and we had a very lengthy chat about lymphoedema and how serious the condition is. The reality of it, particularly that it will never go away, can be quite upsetting. But I felt Thelma, my physiotherapist in Summerhill, listened to me and understood how it made me feel but advised that this treatment would help keep it manageable. "She went through everything with me – the treatment plan, that she would do a wrapping treatment which involved wrapping my arm in bandages twice a week for the following 3-4 weeks. She would do a lymph drain massage first which helped in easing some discomfort from a build-up of scar tissue. Then she would wrap my arm tightly to reduce the build-up of fluid and she would measure my progress. "The results I got from this treatment were amazing and the fluid reduction was brilliant. Having this service is fantastic and well-needed. I have come away with loads of information and ways to manage my lymphoedema. I wear a compression sleeve 24/7. Having this service is hugely beneficial for patients. I’m very grateful for it and has helped me so much. Lymphoedema is an awful side effect from cancer treatment but this service helps all those affected." Another service user, Karen Lavelle from Stamullen, told how in the past she would have waited months for an appointment with physiotherapists in a Dublin hospital.  "I am lucky that my condition is well under control. However when problems occur as they do for all sorts of reasons such as heat or infection, it has been a breath of fresh air to be able to pick up the phone and make an appointment with one of the physiotherapists at short notice and to build relationships with the therapists. "I have had my manual drainage and fitting of support wear in Summerhill. I would advise anyone who has had cancer surgery such as breast or Gynae to discuss with their consultant the possibility of lymphoedema developing and pay close attention to their relevant limbs for signs of swelling and if this occurs then ask for a referral." Meath Chronicle is part of Celtic Media Group which includes: The Anglo Celt, Connaught Telegraph, Offaly Independent, Westmeath Examiner and Westmeath Independent| © 2021 Meath Chronicle and Celtic Media Group. All rights reserved.