Muskegon County received an unexpected shipment of the Johnson & Johnson single dose COVID-19 vaccine that is allowing health officials to reach out to vulnerable communities. (Jacob Hamilton | MLive.com) Young children are now eligible to get the latest COVID-19 vaccine booster.  On Thursday, Dec. 8, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration added children 6 months to 4 years old to the group eligible for both Pfizer’s and Moderna’s bivalent booster shots, which were made to protect against newer coronavirus variants like omicron.  Children can get a single bivalent booster two months after completing their two-dose primary series with the original, monovalent COVID vaccine from Moderna.  For the Pfizer vaccine, the primary series included a three-dose series. Those children are now recommended to get two doses of the monovalent shot, followed by one dose of the bivalent vaccine as their third dose.  Children who already received three doses of Pfizer’s original vaccine will not yet be eligible for a bivalent booster, the FDA noted Thursday. Health officials say they’re still waiting on data regarding the efficacy of three monovalent shots followed by a bivalent shot, but said those kids who have gotten three monovalent shots are still expected to have protection against most serious outcomes from the currently circulating omicron variant.  Bivalent COVID vaccines have been available since September, and more than 1.33 million Michigan residents have since been boosted. As of Wednesday, Dec. 7, Michigan had boosted 26,442 children 5 to 11 years old, and 50,437 youth age 12 to 19.  The more people who are up-to-date on their recommended COVID vaccinations, the more benefit there will be for individuals, families and the community by reducing severe illness, hospitalizations and deaths, said Dr. Robert Califf, commissioner for the FDA. “More children now have the opportunity to update their protection against COVID-19 with a bivalent COVID-19 vaccine, and we encourage parents and caregivers of those eligible to consider doing so – especially as we head into the holidays and winter months where more time will be spent indoors,” Califf said in a prepared statement.  Children younger than 5 were first eligible for a COVID vaccine in June. Since then, 48,951 children have gotten at least a first dose, or less than 9% of the state’s 5 and under population.  Both bivalent shots include an mRNA component corresponding to the original strain of coronavirus, plus an mRNA component corresponding to the omicron variants BA.4 and BA.5.  Side effects from the newer vaccine boosters are similar to that of the originals. The most commonly reported side effects are redness and swelling at the injection site, swelling and tenderness of the lymph nodes of the injected arm or though, and fever. Other side effects include irritability/crying, sleepiness, and loss of appetite.  For more information, parents should contact their child’s physician. To find a vaccine provider near you, visit vaccines.gov/search, input your ZIP code, and  select one or both of the bivalent COVID-19 vaccines.  As of Friday morning, Dec. 9, there wasn’t yet an option for locating bivalent vaccines for children 6 months to 5 years, but the page indicated that vaccines for young children are continuing to be shipped nationwide and locations offering vaccine are being updated daily.  “If you do not find a convenient location, check back later or contact your health care provider or local health department,” reads the federal vaccine finder.  Read more on MLive: Metro Detroit, Grand Rapids counties get 1 COVID risk level higher, CDC says Disclosures detail Democrats’ financial dominance in top races Michigan House and Senate leaders say farewell to the legislature Michigan Senate Oversight committee seeks probe into corrections department If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices