The Ocean City Boardwalk is welcoming Bull on the Beach back with open arms. The open-pit restaurant and bar is sticking around at its original Second Street Boardwalk location after first announcing in October 2022 it would close permanently in the fall. The restaurant's owners have since come to an agreement with their landlord for one more year under Park Place Hotel. "We have been given an opportunity to utilize this property one last time and we want to make the best of it for the hotel guests and our regulars," Bull on the Beach shared on social media. Park Place Hotel has housed the restaurant for more than 40 years. "Thanks for everyone’s support during our navigation of this fluid situation," said Bull on the Beach. "It would be impossible to survive something like this if we didn’t have four decades of faithful customers under our belt." More:2023 brings new restaurants, breweries to Ocean City, Salisbury and Eastern Shore "This last-minute negotiating worked out best for both parties," said Kevin Houck, owner and manager of Bull on the Beach's Second Street location. "We're spreading our roots a little bit as well," Houck shared. Bull on the Beach dropped even more exciting news Dec. 16. The restaurant will operate two locations on the Boardwalk for the 2023 season: the one at Second Street for dine-in and carryout, and another at its new spot near Trimper's at South Division Street for walk-up service only. The restaurant's lease on the second Boardwalk spot begins Jan. 1, 2023. Its new location at South Division Street will offer picnic table seating to customers as well as offerings beyond its cherished original menu. "We're going to have an in-house smoker, and start introducing smoking wings, briskets, pork belly and some other items as well," Houck said. If all things go as planned, Houck said the restaurant plans to open its new spot on St. Patrick's Day weekend. Until then, construction is underway. No matter what, he said, patrons can expect Bull on the Beach's original Second Street location to open that same weekend. More:19 iconic restaurants, bars and more we say goodbye to with 2022 closures on Eastern Shore More:Rack Room Shoes opens in Salisbury, and a new pool hall on the way | What's Going There "The response was really positive. I think people are happy that there's going to be more than one location that they can visit," Houck said of the surrounding community. "(Owners Marie and Phil Houck) are, of course, happy for the expanse." The restaurant's location on 94th Street remains open seven days a week throughout the year. Olivia Minzola covers communities on the Lower Shore. Contact her with tips and story ideas at ominzola@delmarvanow.com.