Oracle Red Bull Racing says it is now so strong commercially that it is turning down more sponsor opportunities than it is accepting, a remarkable claim that is reminiscent of ones made by NASCAR teams in that series’ glory days. The F1 team, which is based in the U.K. and owned by the Austrian energy drink company, has seen more commercial growth than any other team in the global racing series during the last three years as it has exploded in popularity, according to Commercial Dir Nick Stocker. RBR has seen a boost in popularity thanks in part to two-time defending F1 champ Max Verstappen, who heads up a driver roster that also includes Sergio Perez and Daniel Ricciardo. That on-track success and stardom, coupled with the cultural cache of the Red Bull brand, appears to be putting the team’s commercial value at an all-time high. RBR has brought in in 23 new partners over the past three years, including 19 from the U.S. -- about 80% of the sponsors. CLOSE TO INVENTORY SELL OUT: Stocker noted RBR is renewing pre-existing partners at higher rates than before and is not far off from being sold out of advertising inventory. Stocker: “We’re a business at the end of the day and our job is making the car go fastest around the track, but it comes with a cost and it’s a case of supply and demand. We’re getting to the point now where we have many partners and we want to ensure we’re delivering for all our partners with a high level of service and activation, so it comes to a point where we actually have to say, ‘The shop is shut and we have enough partners for the team.’ But luckily we’re not yet in that position -- we have a few more to sell in the market.” He confirmed that sponsor revenue is at its historical peak. The team has 35 sponsors listed on its website, including Walmart, Hard Rock and Cash App. RBR works with CAA Sports on its sponsorship sales deals. LICENSING DEALS GALORE: One of the ways that RBR is working to grow its fanbase and increase revenue is by striking licensing deals to make co-branded consumer products at various price points. The team has gone from about 15 licensing partners to around 40 in the last few years, and it also has a soon-to-be-announced one on the way with Yeti, SBJ can reveal. RBR ended its apparel deal with Puma after last year and is now splitting that category up between multiple partners, starting with British brand Castore and also including New Era. Stocker said the broader goal in licensing is to provide options for fans to buy team merchandise regardless of how affluent they are: “We’re giving our fans and consumers on the periphery the opportunity to be part of Oracle Red Bull Racing -- whether that’s through buying a key ring up to memorabilia that could cost thousands -- and giving those options to the fans regardless of their disposable income level.”  U.S. GROWTH: This will be a big year for the team’s growth plans in the U.S. On top of announcing last week that it will team up with American manufacturer Ford starting in 2026, there will be three races in the U.S. this year -- including the new one in Las Vegas in November. Stocker said there will be hundreds of activations related to RBR held at Walmart stores in the U.S. throughout the year, as well as at Hard Rock hotels. RBR is also planning to do two show-run events this year, and it's also opening a contest to let fans design its cars' paint schemes for the U.S. races. Red Bull North America is also expected to become an official sponsor of the Vegas race, which is being promoted by Liberty Media. Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/02/08/Marketing-and-Sponsorship/red-bull-commercial-strength-yeti-licensing-deal.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/02/08/Marketing-and-Sponsorship/red-bull-commercial-strength-yeti-licensing-deal.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: