ENGLEWOOD, Colo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty Media”) (Nasdaq: LSXMA, LSXMB, LSXMK, FWONA, FWONK, LLYVA, LLYVK) announced that after over 20 years, Albert E. Rosenthaler will be retiring from Liberty effective January 1, 2024. Mr. Rosenthaler has served as Chief Corporate Development Officer since 2016. Previously, he was the top tax officer for Liberty Media and its predecessors since joining in 2002. Mr. Rosenthaler will become a Senior Advisor and remain a resource to the Liberty family of companies and its portfolio companies.

 
“I want to thank Albert for his material contributions, partnership and dedication to Liberty over the years. His knowledge and expertise have delivered tremendous value for our shareholders. On behalf of John Malone and the entire Liberty team, we appreciate his continued involvement as a Senior Advisor and wish Albert the best in his retirement,” said Greg Maffei, Liberty Media President and CEO.

 
Liberty’s corporate development and tax functions will continue to be overseen by executives within the Company in partnership with Mr. Rosenthaler in his role as a Senior Advisor.

 
About Liberty Media Corporation
 
Liberty Media Corporation operates and owns interests in a broad range of media, communications, sports and entertainment businesses. Those businesses are attributed to three tracking stock groups: the Liberty SiriusXM Group, the Formula One Group and the Liberty Live Group. The businesses and assets attributed to the Liberty SiriusXM Group (NASDAQ: LSXMA, LSXMB, LSXMK) include Liberty Media’s interest in SiriusXM. The businesses and assets attributed to the Formula One Group (NASDAQ: FWONA, FWONK) include Liberty Media’s subsidiary Formula 1 and other minority investments. The businesses and assets attributed to the Liberty Live Group (NASDAQ: LLYVA, LLYVK) include Liberty Media’s interest in Live Nation and other minority investments.

 
Liberty Media Corporation 
Shane Kleinstein, 720-875-5432

 Liberty Media Corporation Announces the Retirement of Albert E. Rosenthaler 
Liberty Media Corporation 
Shane Kleinstein, 720-875-5432

