Edinburgh Live went down for a sneak peek of the new tram line and decided to have a Top Gear-style race to see which was faster - the bus or the tram. Don't miss any of Edinburgh Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters Don't miss any of Edinburgh Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters The first Edinburgh trams to Newhaven are due to start this week - with many locals anticipating the start of delay-ridden project. The route will add almost three miles of tracks, with the project starting in November 2019. Residents and local businesses have been eager to see the trams fully functional after waiting almost four years. The route will begin carrying locals around the city centre from Wednesday at 12 noon - for the first time in 67 years.  READ MORE - Live updates - Edinburgh emergency services scrambled to ongoing incident near school Edinburgh Live went down for a sneak peek of the trams and decided to have a Top Gear-style race to see which was faster - the trams or a Lothian bus. The race began in the city centre at Picardy Place where the new line of trams to Newhaven will start to serve the public.  Our roving video journalist Angus took the tram while I took the 16 bus from the stop opposite the tram stop to make the race fair.  The bus turned up a little bit earlier than expected so I got on and went up the stairs to get fantastic views of Leith Walk. However, Angus had a five-minute wait until the tram turned up and eventually left the stop and by that time I was around halfway down the walk.  I was filled with confidence with my head start but before I knew it, Angus was gaining on me at an alarming rate due to traffic that the bus encountered. As we were both on the Facebook Live I could see where Angus was and my confidence quickly drained away.  Before I knew it, the bus was taking a left at the foot of the walk onto Great Junction Street and the last stretch of the journey began with both of us neck and neck.  Sign up for Edinburgh Live newsletters for more headlines straight to your inbox The tram continued on down Constitution Street and I thought this would buy me a little bit of time but unfortunately, a lot of passengers were getting on and off the bus, going through the many streets that the 16 bus winds through.  Luckily for me, the tram that Angus was on got caught up in traffic which gave me a comfortable lead and before I knew it Ocean Terminal was in sight and after a few more stops, I got off the bus.  I walked to the Newhaven tram stop and waited to gloat about my victory but I ended up being the brunt of the joke after Angus got off the tram he reminded me that I had a very generous head start.  The bus took 23 minutes and 17 seconds from Picardy Place to the Newhaven bus stop which is situated beside the tram stop. The tram took just under 20 minutes at 19:57 so the tram is officially faster and the winner of our race.  READ NEXT: Son of boxing legend Ken Buchanan claims he's 'not allowed' to see dad's will Victim of notorious Edinburgh Magic Circle paedophile ring speaks for first time Edinburgh tram passengers warned of delays after vehicle collides with wires Plans for abandoned Edinburgh shop to become Ladbrokes betting office submitted This Morning's 'big-hearted' Josie Gibson tipped to save show from axe 