Online safety needs to be a priority for parents and teachers who are providing internet access to youth for education or entertainment purposes. Most search engines, websites, and apps offer safe search options, filters, or censorship of adult-related or inappropriate content. Parents can also choose certain websites or apps that cannot be downloaded or accessed from their device. The below tips can be utilized to ensure your child is using the internet safely and securely: Educate yourself on social media safety and have discussions about present dangers and negative effects of posting certain content online and sharing personal or inappropriate topics in texts or other messaging apps. Explain that personal data could be collected based on information shared or websites visited on the internet. Keep the computer, tablet, or laptop in an open area. If a computer is in a home office, enforce a rule that doors are always left open when online. Do not allow internet use after parents or guardians have gone to bed. Use a password that only a parent knows for any family device. Install antivirus or malware software on your computer to further protect data. Explain the importance of strong passwords and their goal to protect personal and family information. Please see the Active●Fit sidebar article for information to create strong passwords. Ensure that their most-used websites are secure by checking the web address. Secure sites will contain an “s” after “http” in the URL; therefore, avoid any sites that do not have such in the address. Bookmark your child’s favorite websites to avoid any accidental mistyping that could take them to an unsecure site. Track their search history, and if any inappropriate or unsecure websites are found, discuss with your child and block such sites. Although safe search options are effective and convenient, it should not replace proper supervision and communication. When able, parents should know what their child is doing on their device. Children who have phones or other devices will be harder to supervise, but parents should communicate the importance of being responsible while using the internet on their devices. Emphasize that personal information, such as name, address, or telephone number, should not be given to anyone online without a parent’s permission. Youth should never agree to meet someone that they have met online and should tell their parents about anyone who is asking to meet them. Children should talk with a parent about pictures they want to post, whether of themselves, friends, or family members. Check to ensure privacy settings are activated on all social media websites that children use. Be cautious of any requests from your child to use a debit or credit card for a purchase as some websites may be scams and will use your information. The internet can be a useful resource for children to learn, socialize, and play games. Youth who are able to navigate a screen can have access to everything that the internet offers, which also poses many risks to you and your child’s personal information. It is important to be aware of what your children see and hear on the internet, who they are interacting with, and what they share about themselves online. Talk with your children about your concerns, take advantage of resources to protect them, and track their usage. This article originally appeared on The Columbus Dispatch: Active Fit: How to keep your kids safe on the internet New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.