We independently evaluate the products we review. When you buy via links on our site, we may receive compensation. Read more about how we vet products and deals. Summer means time at the beach, family roadtrips and a lot of fun — but it's also important to make sure you're properly equipped for any trip you might decide to take. It can be hard to predict what you might need, so the easy answer is to combine as many tools as possible into one, like with this 7-in-1 Emergency Tool. It's a car safety hammer, seat belt cutter, red siren, blink light, magnet, and USB charger in one. It also has a hand-crank for charging, so you can generate power even when none is available. This tool combines nearly everything you might need when facing an emergency on a road trip.  Let's go through the tools it offers. First is a seat belt cutter — a sharp blade designed to slash through thick seatbelts if they get stuck. The window breaker is designed to easily shatter a car window in the event of a crash or accident that makes it so you can't open the door. There's also a lighting tool combined with a magnetic attachment. You can attach it to any metal part of the vehicle to either signal that you're pulled over or to use as a work light while you're tinkering with the engine. The light can even be set to flash an SOS to get the attention of passerby. There are also USB charging ports so that you can recharge your mobile device. Finally — and the coolest part, in our opinion — is that it's hand-crank powered. You don't have to plug this tool in to take advantage of its capabilities. Just turn the crank for long enough and you can generate your own power. It comes with a one-year warranty, too, so you have practically nothing to lose. "Multi-function goodness," one fan said. "This car safety device has a ton of features that are useful. I wanted something with multiple functions in case of emergency that complements the emergency roadside kit I bought separately. The strap cutter razor is very, very sharp. The flashlight feature will probably get the most non-emergent use." "Love having this 7-in-1 emergency tool in our vehicle," another reviewer said. "It has a back-up charging port for my phone, just in case of an emergency, this is what sold me. The flashlight works great and gives a decent amount of light. The crank to charge is easy to use. Everyone needs one of these in their vehicles for emergencies. If you end up in a crash and can't reach this device to break your window, take the headrest of your seat and try to use that to break the window as a back-up. Two thumbs up from our family" So many features in such a small package make this a must-buy.  The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. If you have Amazon Prime, you’ll get free shipping, of course. Not yet a member? No problem. You can sign up for your free 30-day trial here. (And by the way, those without Prime still get free shipping on orders of $25 or more.) New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.