May 26—Why it matters: The stretch between Memorial Day and Labor Day weekends are known by law enforcement to be more dangerous on roads and waterways. The kickoff to summer for most Minnesotans is tied to the upcoming Memorial Day weekend when festivals, trips to the lake and get-togethers take off. It's also the time when law enforcement grows more concerned about safety because there is a predictable uptick in vehicle crashes. The call for caution isn't meant to dampen spirits, but facts are facts. Of the 444 vehicle crash fatalities in 2022 across the state, 38% of them, or 169, occurred between Memorial Day and Labor Day, according to the Minnesota Department of Public Safety's Office of Traffic Safety. That more dangerous period of time is why extra enforcement can be found on Minnesota roads, when officers are writing tickets for everything from non-hands-free cellphone use to seat belt violations. Last year 87 people died and 1,244 people were seriously injured after failing to wear a seat belt. Of those unbelted fatalities, 76 occurred in Greater Minnesota. The public should do their part to be cognizant of increased traffic and roadway use during the busy summer, including more use by motorcyclists and bicyclists. Slowing down and being alert are necessary for more vigilant driving. Department of Natural Resources officials also are stressing that caution be used on waterways — this holiday weekend likely will be very busy on lakes and rivers with the favorable forecast. Along with urging everyone in a boat to wear life jackets — it's required for children age 10 and younger — the DNR reminds operators that driving a boat under the influence is illegal and is the single greatest factor in fatal boating accidents. Higher water levels this year also mean boaters have to be aware that hazards can be hidden under the water's surface. Safety on the roads and in the water isn't an attempt to take the fun out of summer; it's a way to make sure everyone can enjoy these longer days without an avoidable tragedy marring them forever. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.