"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Robots and AI are taking over… Your housework. Rather than pushing around a heavy canister or upright vacuum, robot vacuums are a perfect “set it and forget it” tool that will keep your floors and carpets clean, easing the burden of your demanding, time-consuming cleaning routine. With their advanced sensors and intelligent mapping, you can set up these wafer-shaped, dirt-sucking automatons to navigate your home all on their own, efficiently picking up dirt, dust and debris, even in hard-to-reach areas like under your bed. They can clean every day or in scheduled intervals, giving you one less thing to worry about. We’ve tested the most promising models to find the best robot vacuums to keep your house cleaner and make your life easier. Best Overall: Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra Best to Vacuum-Mop Combo: iRobot Roomba Combo j7+ Best Value: Eufy RoboVac G30 Edge Robot Vacuum Lowest Maintenance: iRobot Roomba s9+ Robot Vacuum Best for Homes With Pets: Shark AI Ultra Robot Vacuum More Ways to Upgrade Your Living Space: Best LED Strip Lights ● Best Smart Displays ● Best Robot Mops The Expert (Brad Ford): I’ve been writing about, reporting on, and reviewing consumer technology for nearly 40 years, and specifically stick and robot vacuums since their appearance. The Expert (Brandon Russell): I’m a freelance writer and editor who’s written about tech and smart home products for publications like Popular Science, Best Products, and CNN Underscored. I am a very thorough cleaner. My TikTok feed is full of videos showing people cleaning their living spaces. I’ve tried and tested all types of vacuums over the years, from heavy canister models to handheld devices. My trusty self-emptying robot vacuum runs a few times a week, helping me keep my floors spotless. First, let’s get this out of the way: You’re probably not getting rid of your current vacuum. In most homes there will still be some places a robot won’t reach, like in between narrowly spaced furniture legs. And there are some types of dirt/debris that can overwhelm the vacuum filter—these small machines have, not surprisingly, small filters. Fine dust, fireplace ash, flour, corn starch, and powders, even in moderate quantities, can clog a filter and affect performance. If you drop a bag of flour in the kitchen, it might be best to scoop up the majority of it and let your robot finish the job. (FYI, we found the most efficient way to clean the small filters was to use our shop vac with a pointy crevice tool.) A robot vacuum can absolutely make life easier, cutting down on the time you spend cleaning. Set up on a schedule, it can help the house look and stay cleaner on a day-to-day basis. So when the time comes for you to take over, there’s only some touch-up required. Of course, if there are no kids or pets, that may not even be necessary. When using a robot vacuum for the first time, stick around to monitor what it’s doing. There are a few things to keep an eye on. Shoelaces, strings, carpet fringe, and thin or lightweight clothing can all get pulled into the brushes or rollers. The Roborock uses two cameras and artificial intelligence (AI) to identify many common “problem obstacles” the vacuum may encounter and avoid them. Some units have sensors that will stop them when the brushes meet resistance, and some will even reverse, spitting out whatever they pulled in. But, to avoid damage to the vacuum and whatever it might try to suck up, you should keep the area clear. Additionally, be aware of pet food/water bowls, plant stands, or other things that might be “tippy” until it’s clear how a vacuum will interact with them. Models that leverage bump-and-go navigation, like the Eufy G30 Edge, may knock things a little harder, so it’s a good idea to set up boundaries around those water bowls. Lastly, if kids have toys with small parts, like Lego bricks, those can easily be picked up by a robot vacuum. Many models have features to create exclusion zones, so make use of them or employ your own strategy to avoid all these little hazards that could jam up the vacuum. Navigation is key to how well a robot vacuum performs its job. Suction matters little if the vacuum doesn’t pass over every inch of the floor. Just about all models employ three basic types of sensors to help them navigate. As the ones we tested worked their way through our corrals and one editor’s living room that we used as a control, we took stock of how efficiently they moved within the space. Bump-and-Go: The vacuum heads in one direction and then changes course when it hits something. Many vacuums have programming that makes their paths more efficient. By bumping into a wall in a couple of places, they can verify the location of a wall and travel parallel to it, turning 180 degrees each time they hit an end wall. Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (vSLAM): This tracks multiple points in a room, in successive camera frames, to triangulate position. The Roomba s9+ employs this method to navigate. Over time it learns and becomes more efficient, where it may rely on points that remain constant and do not change. Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR): This consists of a laser that locates features by sending out pulses of light and measuring how long they take to return. LiDAR is especially useful for creating accurate maps, and is the most powerful navigation tool for robot vacuums. As we tested these vacuums, colleagues and friends invariably asked if we tested them with dog poop. (There are plenty of videos online documenting the ensuing devastation when a robot vacuum trundles over a pile.) Except for one of these vacs, we did not. Until recently, there wasn’t a model that we’ve found capable of identifying pet accidents. But the Roborock below now features such a dedicated pet-mess avoidance system. Other companies have promoted the fact they’re developing this feature, but only Roborock has made it to market so far. First, we set up three 8- by 8-foot pens, each with a different floor surface, where we could repeat cleaning scenarios for each model of robot vacuum. The floor of one corral was low- to medium-pile carpet; the second was bare, polished concrete; and the third was laminate flooring. We placed a floor mat and a wooden stool on the concrete as obstacles. Then, in each corral, we dumped 5 grams of flour, 5 grams of sawdust, 15 grams of dried rice, and 15 grams of pinto beans to simulate various types of dirt and debris. (We should note that robot vacuums are maintenance cleaners, and these—for the sake of our stress test—were more material than you should expect a vac to pick up on a regular basis.) On the carpet, flour and sawdust are indicators of how well a vacuum’s brushes work at agitating dirt, making it easier to suck up. On the laminate, where sawdust and flour can get deep into seams, raw suction power is needed. And dried rice and pinto beans are a challenge on concrete and laminate, because a vacuum’s brushes could quickly scatter them. Once we had the vacuums’ apps installed and paired, we set the models loose, timing and scrutinizing their work. Water lift, a common method of quantifying suction, is relatively easy to measure. So easy, in fact, we built a simple water lift gauge to evaluate the strength of these robot vacs. Here’s how it works: We set up the vacuums so their suction could be applied, within a sealed system, to a tube with water in it. The stronger the suction, the higher the water is lifted. Vacuum manufacturers tend to list vacuum strength in Pascals (Pa), which can be converted to water lift: 249.1 Pa equals 1-inch of water lift. You’ll notice our numbers are lower than manufacturers’ claims, and that’s to be expected because they don’t tell us where or how they’re measuring. They may take measurements at the impeller, or without going through the filter. It’s similar to how auto manufacturers list horsepower ratings on cars—as an engine spec. But the transmission, differential, and other systems all leech some of that horsepower, so what’s actually available at the rear wheels isn’t the same number listed in the specs. To be as close as possible to the actual amount of suction available under the vacuums, we removed the vacuum brushes and measured right through the housing above them, with the vacuum filter in place. After evaluating our list, we incorporated supplementary selections to cater to a broader range of preferences, diverse living situations, and varying budget considerations. While we haven’t put these models through our strict lab testing, we are confident they meet the standards set by our top picks. We relied on our prior testing experience and market research to make our new selections, evaluating the models based on smart features, cleaning abilities, battery life, and customer support. Shop Now S7 MaxV Ultra amazon.com $799.99 Roborock’s S7 MaxV replaces the S6 MaxV we tested previously. This new generation improves upon the previous model with more suction, faster processing speed to recognize obstacles, and a fully automated dock. Overall, the vacuuming speed remained similar to the S6. In the laminate corral, it vacuumed everything clean, leaving no trace of the debris we had strewn. It finished our carpeted corral in just over 9 minutes, with barely a trace of sawdust left behind. In our concrete area, with the rice we spread, the side brush scattered a few grains, which then got left behind. The small traces of debris missed, as with other models tested, is largely a byproduct of the transparent volume of detritus we used in testing. Using LiDAR to navigate, the S7 MaxV started with a diagonal zigzag path, presumably scanning the surroundings. It then quickly went around the perimeter of the corral, following that up with a series of out-and-back passes moving across the whole space. The vacuum then performed a second pass of the perimeter, ending with a final out-and-back series of sweeps, criss-crossing the previous passes, and then returning to the dock to top off the battery. The more times it vacuumed the same space, the more precise and efficient the robot’s path became. While the mopping was sufficient to clean up the muddy footprints we left in testing, the automated features of the docking station are what really impressed us. Aside from the robot vacuum self-emptying into the dock, the onboard mopping reservoir is automatically refilled from the dock. Plus, the dock rinses and cleans the mop pad with an automated, spinning brush, directing waste-water to its own tank. So, with an empty dust bin and a tank full of clean water, the robot can run up to eight weeks unaided. The S7 MaxV also pleased us during practical testing in our homes. In the Roborock app, we watched as the vacuum quickly created accurate maps of our rooms as it vacuumed in real-time. It also recognized and avoided sneakers, a power strip, and some wooden prop dog poop we threw down, leaving icons on the maps indicating what obstacles were and where they were encountered. In the app, we could view saved maps in 2D or 3D formats, edit maps, add virtual walls, add no-go and no-mop zones, as well as create room specific settings and cleaning schedules. Remarkably, you can also pull up live video from the robot while cleaning is in process, and even use it to place a video call to speak to whoever may be present in your home. Shop Now Roomba Combo j7+  amazon.com $889.99 The Combo j7+ is a sleek self-emptying vacuum made of subdued matte-black plastic. It has two multi-surface rubber brushes that pick up dirt and debris, and makes a map of your home to know where carpet and hard surfaces are located. The mapping process can take up to an hour, though it’s pretty accurate and has decent navigation. It’s the only robot vacuum that doesn’t require you to change out brushes between vacuuming and mopping. It has a retractable robot arm with a mop head that swings underneath the entire vacuum. There’s a small receptacle on the side to add cleaning fluid, though if you mop large areas plan on refilling it a couple times. There have been issues with the app, however. A lot of people experienced error messages that resulted in incomplete cleaning cycles. Shop Now RoboVac G30 Edge Robot Vacuum amazon.com $269.99 The G30 Edge is the least expensive model from our test, but you wouldn’t know that by how it cleaned our test corrals. It was slightly slower than the others, sure, yet it effectively and methodically vacuumed each area. It left barely a trace of debris on both the carpet and laminate floor and missed some rice transitioning from the floor to the mat in the concrete area. We did notice the G30 Edge bump things slightly harder than the other vacuums— not surprising, since its navigation is an enhanced version of bump-and-go. Despite having that lower-tech nav system, this Eufy seemed remarkably efficient. Leaving the dock, it immediately started a straight out-and-back pattern, moving left to the wall with each pass. It then bumped the wall in a couple of places, confirming its location, before returning to the center. It continued out and back to the right wall, where it started around the perimeter to the lower left corner. It then began left and right passes from the front to the back, followed by the perimeter, ending with the lower right corner. Testing in our homes, we used the app to monitor progress in real time. While we could view completed vacuuming and maps in the cleaning history, we couldn’t save or edit them. To set no-go zones, we laid down the included magnetic strip to create physical barriers. While this worked well, we did need to remember to put the strip in place every time we had the vacuum scheduled to clean. Shop Now Roomba s9+ Robot Vacuum amazon.com $1047.98 The s9+ clocked the fastest time to finish the carpeted area, leaving just a trace of sawdust after 9 minutes. In the concrete area, it took more time navigating around the wooden stool but was delicate in doing so, cleaning around the legs thoroughly. Like the others, it did leave some rice at the edge of the floor mat. In the laminate corral, we couldn’t find any debris except for a dusting of flour in one spot. Keep in mind that the s9+ has flexible ridges and paddles instead of bristles. This appeared to be a little less effective with very fine particles on the smooth, hard surface. We had the most difficulty discerning what the s9+ was actually doing. What initially appeared to be a random path, we realized, was a series of location exercises using vSLAM. It first moved left and right, bumping both sides in multiple places, and then it worked toward the corners, looping into them in a wide curve before moving tight in and backing out. Then it performed a trip around the perimeter, and then into the corners again. After all that, it moved to make left and right passes to cover the middle area. Finally, it vacuumed left and right of the dock. This Roomba has a slightly different design than most other robot vacuums, in that it has a flat front with squared-off corners. We found two advantages of this, the first being that it got into corners better, and the second that it allows for wider brushes—about 30 percent so. Shop Now AI Ultra Robot Vacuum amazon.com $611.03 Shark’s AI Ultra robot vacuum is a hands-off maintenance cleaner with a HEPA filter, making it a great option for pet owners. The AI Ultra can run unaided up to 60 days because the docking station empties the robot at the end of every cleaning cycle. After each stage of testing, we examined the vacuum’s onboard dust bin after it self-emptied and found it clear of debris. We did note that there was always a small amount of dust residue sticking to the inside due to static electricity. When the docking station does need emptying, we found it best to do it into a large garbage can in the garage or outside, because dust can become airborne, which sort of defeats the advantages of the unit’s onboard HEPA filter if done inside. On our various test surfaces, the AI Ultra performed equally well on hard and carpeted surfaces. It occasionally left a few grains of rice or a stray kidney bean in our admittedly heavily deposited debris, but no more than the other models. Initially, the app directs you to run an exploration/mapping pass the first time you set it up in a new space. This allowed us to edit the map, adding no-go zones, carpet, and high traffic areas where it can increase suction. We could also assign areas to spot clean or have the AI Ultra make two passes instead of one. We also tested the obstacle avoidance features when navigating our space. As long as the obstacle was taller than the vacuum, the robot would stop and maneuver around it. When we laid a roll of packing tape on the floor, the vacuum pushed it around. So, the vacuum picks up individual Lego bricks, but it will avoid your child’s Lego castle. If these types of things are common in your house, you’ll want to set up no-go zones for children’s play areas. The AI Ultra also functions as a robotic mop, when you swap out its onboard dust bin with the water tanks and mop pad. Our muddy footprints were a lot to ask of it, but the AI Ultra did a good job of wiping the area clean, with just a couple of crumbs of dirt left behind. We did have to thoroughly clean the mop pad after the test, as it was caked with mud—but our test was beyond a normal mopping scenario. Shop Now IQ AV1010AE Self-Empty XL amazon.com $367.00 A little older and a little cheaper than the Shark AI Ultra, my Shark IQ AV1010AE Self-Empty XL has been keeping my floor clean for years. It features a self-emptying base that can hold up to 45 days of dirt and debris, making the already light maintenance of your vacuum an occasional chore. All you have to do is empty the bagless base into the trash once it gets full, rather than cleaning the robot itself. The AV1010AE also offers a navigation feature that maps your home and clean it row by row rather than aimlessly bouncing around. It features a strong set of core clean tools, including multi-surface brush roll for cleaning carpets and hardwood floors, as well as a side brush to remove debris from edges and corners. My only gripe is that the self-emptying function can get a bit loud, so I recommend scheduling it so it finishes cleaning before you go to bed. Shop Now Q5+ amazon.com $599.99 The Roborock Q5+ is our pick for those who live in larger homes. The robot vac features LiDAR sensors that can create 2D and 3D maps of your home, thanks to a powerful smart-mapping feature. After the vac’s first cleaning session, it creates an interactive map in the companion app, allowing you to set up targeted room cleaning and no-go zones. The laser navigation system works in tandem with bump sensors to quickly clean your space while avoiding obstacles like furniture. The Roborock Q5+ includes other nice-to-have features like a self-emptying dock and a brush that’s effective for cleaning dirt, debris, and pet hair. But the real standout feature is the robot vacuum’s run time; the Roborock Q5+ is rated to clean for up to 180 minutes (3,230 square feet) on a single charge. The long battery life ensures the robot vacuum is more efficient and encounters fewer interruptions before returning to its dock. Shop Now Roomba i4 EVO amazon.com $252.98 When space comes at a premium, the iRobot Roomba i4 EVO delivers a nice balance of smart features, cleaning power, and price in a compact package. It features two multi-surface rubber brushes and powerful suction that quickly cleans dirt, debris, and pet hair. With customizable cleaning routes, the i4 can navigate your space based on preferences and create the most thorough route possible, deviating from its pattern when it needs to get around furniture and other obstacles. The i4 EVO also includes dirt detection sensors to identify and thoroughly clean dirtier areas (like a kitchen). It can also learn your cleaning habits and suggest cleaning more thoroughly during seasons when pollen and other pollutants are more prevalent. As it moves throughout your apartment, the cleaning head can automatically adjust its height from hardwood floors to carpet. And, thanks to compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, you can control the i4 EVO with voice commands. For example, you can tell the vacuum to clean your kitchen after cooking using your phone or another smart device. As fans of self-emptying vacuums, we love that you can add a self-emptying charging station, the iRobot Clean Base, which can empty out and store up to an estimated 60 days worth of dirt, dust, and hair. The base station takes up a little more space, sadly, but save you a lot of time. There’s no one-size-fits-all answer to determine how often you should have your robot vacuum clean. The amount of time it needs to effectively clean space will vary based on the amount of floor it needs to cover, the number of people and pets around, and your personal preferences. We recommend running your robot vacuum a few times per week to help prevent the buildup of dirt, dust, and allergens. Frequent light cleanings will ensure the robot can cover as much ground as possible with every sweep. If possible, set up a cleaning schedule that aligns with your preferences and lifestyle. For example, schedule the robot vacuum to clean when you're away from home or less likely to be inconvenienced by the noise. (You don't want it cleaning while you’re on a video call for work.) As well as they work, a robot vacuum doesn’t fully replace a good ol’ fashioned vacuum. While they can pick up dirt, pet hair, and other debris, robot vacuums may struggle to clean tight corners and edges, whereas manual vacuuming can be more precise. They reduce the amount of upkeep needed to keep your house clean, but there will likely be spots that the robot won’t be able to reach. Just like a standard vacuum, robot vacuums require regular maintenance. You should always check the owner’s manual to understand how and how often you should perform maintenance on your specific robot vacuum. That said, we’ve found a broad rule of thumb that works with many models. Clean your robot vacuum’s filter, brushes, and dustbin weekly or bi-weekly to ensure it functions effectively. Cleaning the robot regularly will also keep it up and running for longer. Of course, you may not need to clean it quite so often if you only run the robot occasionally. Of course, you’ll need to clean it more often if the robot cleans every day. You Might Also Like The Do’s and Don’ts of Using Painter’s Tape The Best Portable BBQ Grills for Cooking Anywhere Can a Smart Watch Prolong Your Life? Roomba robot vacuums are up to $420 off right now. You also get free shipping. Dust bunnies beware: This whisper-quiet, high-capacity floor cleaner easily glides under sofas and runs for up to two hours. Snag this sleek little time saver for over 50% off. A robot dog named VERO can identify and pick up small bits of trash on different terrains. The one-of-one prototype went up in flames after last week's Monterey Car Week. Gold jumps to new record in anticipation of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve next month. A massive rally in Nvidia and the tech sector has overshadowed a solid performance from the rest of the S&P 500 as the index moves toward record highs. Here are some of the top travel credit cards available right now, whether you’re looking for everyday rewards or luxury benefits. This fan favorite is infused with collagen and stem cells, which are known to increase the skin's elasticity. Simone Biles is about to go on tour, so it'll be hard for her to attend her husband's Bears games. A24’s hilarious-looking Y2K has teens battling ancient computers and bloodthirsty Tamagotchis. The trailer for Kyle Mooney’s feature film is a retro-soaked good time. Valve is kicking Counter-Strike players out of matches if they use a feature found on some Razer and Wooting keyboards. Score up to 70% off knives, cookware sets and small appliances from Ninja, KitchenAid and more. Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit.  In their panel discussion, “How Startups Can Save the World,” the investor and two founders will share their insights on starting climate-centric companies, including how they’re navigating novel and complex markets, how their mission helps drive innovation and recruitment, and how they balance planet and profit. Stylish and sustainable, these bestsellers can be tossed in the washer when they need a little TLC. The formula is lightweight, hydrating, brightening and soothing — and it has major fans to back it up. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. You can also save on an ASUS laptop, Crest Whitestrips, a Ninja air fryer, Joanna Gaines' Dutch oven and more. The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round.  Alongside the funding announcement, The Rounds introduced new features for customers, including the ability to make one-time purchases and the flexibility of choosing their delivery day.  It also enhanced its AI-powered algorithm to provide smarter predictions on when customer's products need to be restocked. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Reliant hopes to specialize in the kind of time-consuming data extraction work that's currently a specialty of tired grad students and interns.  "The best thing you can do with AI is improve the human experience: reduce menial labor and let people do the things that are important to them," said CEO Karl Moritz Hermann.  In the research world, where he and co-founders Marc Bellemare and Richard Schlegel have worked for years, literature review is one of the most common examples of this "menial labor."