{{pageTitle}} 
, {{gameSystem}}
 
Starting from: 
{{regularPrice}}{{lowestPrice}}
 How about... Visit us on Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem amiibo @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons NintendoUK NintendoLaboUK NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope RingFitAdventureUK NintendoUK Visit us on LinkedIn The 17th "Japanese Escape Games" series! ■THE GAME SYSTEM This game is an escape-the-room game (mystery-adventure game). *Point the screen with a cursor to solve riddles, and story goes on. ■STORY During a driving-trip in west We got lost in middle of nowhere Coincidentally I found a house And the resident gave me a warm welcome Fatigue led me to fall asleep In front of a fireplace―― I woke up to see the room was a total mess As if it was a whole different room Something is wrong with this place…… I gotta get out of here ASAP…… This description was provided by the publisher. What you need to know This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE. The payment will be made with Nintendo eShop funds usable through the Nintendo Account used to complete the purchase. This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE, payable with Nintendo eShop funds usable through your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, a Nintendo Network ID is also required and your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. To start the purchasing process, it is necessary to sign in with the Nintendo Account and the Nintendo Network ID. After signing in it will be possible to review the details and complete the purchase. To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. You will be able to review the details and complete the purchase on the next screen. The details of this offer apply to users who sign in using a Nintendo Account with the country setting corresponding to the country setting of this website. If the country setting of a Nintendo Account is different, the details of this offer may be adjusted (for example, the price will be displayed in the respective local currency). After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information. In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded. Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download. The details of the offer are displayed based on the country settings of your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content. About pre-ordering The use of an unauthorised device or software that enables technical modification of the Nintendo console or software may render this game unplayable. This product contains technological protection measures. Content not playable before the release date:  {{releaseDate}} . For pre-orders, payments will be taken automatically starting from 7 days before the release date. If you pre-order less than 7 days before the release date, payment will be taken immediately upon purchase. ©Nankaiine/Regista Categories Puzzle Players 
							Single System (1)
						 Publisher Regista Features Handheld mode, Tabletop mode, TV mode Nintendo Switch Online features Play online, enjoy a growing library of classic NES & Super NES games, and more with a Nintendo Switch Online membership. Find out more. Save Data Cloud Age rating System Nintendo Switch Release date 18/05/2023 Age rating PEGI 3 Compatible controllers Languages English Download size 334.00 MB Change country © Nintendo. 2024  Change country Attention! You are about to leave the Nintendo of Europe site. Nintendo of Europe is not responsible for the content or security of the site you are about to visit. Survey Dear visitor, Thank you for visiting the Nintendo website! You have been randomly chosen to take part in a brief survey. By taking a few minutes to share your thoughts and opinions, you will be helping us to improve our website. Naturally, any information provided by you in this survey will be treated in confidence. Your Nintendo of Europe Team Facebook Visit us on Facebook: Nintendo Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS My Nintendo Store Super Mario The Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Animal Crossing Mario Kart Splatoon Fire Emblem amiibo X @NintendoUK My Nintendo Store @NintendoUKVS @SuperMario_UK @AC_Isabelle from Animal Crossing: New Horizons YouTube NintendoUK NintendoLaboUK Instagram Join us on Instagram: NintendoUK NintendoSwitchEurope RingFitAdventureUK Twitch Visit us on Twitch: NintendoUK LinkedIn Visit us on LinkedIn  