


June 26 (UPI) -- IBM announced on Monday it is purchasing business software company Apptio Inc. from its parent Vista Equity Partners for $4.6 billion.
IBM said the deal will allow it to use Apptio's financial and operational IT management and optimization software to accelerate its IT automation capabilities.
Advertisement
"Organizations are digitally transforming their businesses faster than ever, causing IT environments to expand across public and private clouds, with multiple service providers," IBM said in a statement.
"To manage this dramatic increase in complexity, clients are turning to Apptio's solutions for integrated and simplified visibility into technology spent across hybrid and multi-cloud environments, labor and associated resources. Apptio, together with IBM's IT automation software and it's Watsonx AI platform, will help businesses around the world manage and optimize enterprise IT spend and derive tangible financial value and operational improvement."
Related
Applied Materials to build $4B Silicon Valley semiconductor plant
Dell plans to cut more than 6,600 Jobs due to plummeting PC sales
Biden says CHIPS Act critical to national, economic security
Amazon, Google and Microsoft are some of Apptio's 1,500 clients where it provides three core offerings that allow patrons to manage their cloud strategy -- ApptioOne, Apptio Cloudability, and Apptio Targetprocess.
"Technology is changing business at a rate and pace we've never seen before," IBM CEO Arvind Krishna said. "To capitalize on these changes, it is essential to optimize investments which drive better business value, and Apptio does just that."
Advertisement
IBM is one of the leading providers of global hybrid cloud, AI and consulting expertise, with clients in more than 175 countries.
President Joe Biden, in an effort to boost semiconductor production in the United States, last October touted IBM's announcement that it plans to invest $20 billion across the Hudson Valley on research and development initiatives over the next 10 years.



Topics
BusinessJoe BidenGoogleAmazon






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 41 minutes ago
Alaska Airlines' purchase of Hawaiian Airlines clears Justice Department
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- Alaska Airlines' $1.9 billion plan to take over Hawaiian Airlines took a big step on Tuesday when the carrier said its agreement cleared U.S. Justice Department antitrust regulators.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Kamala Harris to host rally, watch party in Milwaukee on second day of Democratic convention
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- Vice President Kamala Harris will hold a rally in Wisconsin on Tuesday during the second night of the Democratic National Convention.










U.S. News // 10 hours ago
Two teens charged with murder in slaying of actor Johnny Wactor
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- Two teenagers have been charged with the murder of American actor Johnny Wactor, the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office said.










U.S. News // 11 hours ago
Judge dismisses Hunter Biden's latest bid to have tax evasion charges thrown out
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- A federal judge has rejected Hunter Biden's latest attempt to dismiss tax evasion charges in a case that is expected to go to trial next month.










U.S. News // 20 hours ago
Democratic convention honors Joe Biden, who calls presidency 'honor of my lifetime'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Democratic National Convention opened Monday in Chicago with a surprise cameo from Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and tributes to President Joe Biden, who gave the keynote speech.










U.S. News // 13 hours ago
U.S. intelligence says Iran behind efforts to infiltrate Trump, Harris campaigns
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- The U.S. intelligence community said Monday that Iran was behind a recent hack of Donald Trump's presidential campaign and efforts to infiltrate the presidential campaign of the Democratic Party.










U.S. News // 17 hours ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 22 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 18 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 18 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.






 June 26 (UPI) -- IBM announced on Monday it is purchasing business software company Apptio Inc. from its parent Vista Equity Partners for $4.6 billion. IBM said the deal will allow it to use Apptio's financial and operational IT management and optimization software to accelerate its IT automation capabilities.
Advertisement "Organizations are digitally transforming their businesses faster than ever, causing IT environments to expand across public and private clouds, with multiple service providers," IBM said in a statement. "To manage this dramatic increase in complexity, clients are turning to Apptio's solutions for integrated and simplified visibility into technology spent across hybrid and multi-cloud environments, labor and associated resources. Apptio, together with IBM's IT automation software and it's Watsonx AI platform, will help businesses around the world manage and optimize enterprise IT spend and derive tangible financial value and operational improvement."
Related
Applied Materials to build $4B Silicon Valley semiconductor plant
Dell plans to cut more than 6,600 Jobs due to plummeting PC sales
Biden says CHIPS Act critical to national, economic security Amazon, Google and Microsoft are some of Apptio's 1,500 clients where it provides three core offerings that allow patrons to manage their cloud strategy -- ApptioOne, Apptio Cloudability, and Apptio Targetprocess. "Technology is changing business at a rate and pace we've never seen before," IBM CEO Arvind Krishna said. "To capitalize on these changes, it is essential to optimize investments which drive better business value, and Apptio does just that."
Advertisement IBM is one of the leading providers of global hybrid cloud, AI and consulting expertise, with clients in more than 175 countries. President Joe Biden, in an effort to boost semiconductor production in the United States, last October touted IBM's announcement that it plans to invest $20 billion across the Hudson Valley on research and development initiatives over the next 10 years.