There's a different energy around Tennessee whiskey. There's something fresh and innovative about it, even though the industry has been a part of this Southern state since before Prohibition. Tennessee whiskey is essentially identical to bourbon, that storied Southern liquor for which its neighboring state Kentucky is best known. But bourbon can be made anywhere, while Tennessee whiskey is an expression of only one state. Perhaps it's that local pride that gives Tennessee's whiskey distilleries their innovative spirit. The industry's upstart distillers are young, diverse and not afraid to take chances, even as they honor history. That's the case at Nelson's Green Brier, where brothers Andy and Charlie Nelson revived an ancestral family recipe that dates back to the turn of the 20th century. And history, specifically that of the Black expert distiller who taught Jack Daniel how to make whiskey, is what's on display at the Nearest Green Distillery. In this sprawling look at an industry on the rise, we'll show you some of the best whiskey Tennessee has to offer, how to drink it and where to find it. We'll explain Tennessee whiskey's history and how it's about to make an indelible mark on a crowded market — and we'll explain why it's time for the rest of the world to take notice. This article originally appeared on Nashville Tennessean: Tennessee whiskey: An innovative spirit with deep traditions New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.