
 
								By 

	Joe Otterson
 TV Reporter 
Fox has canceled the comedy series “Welcome to Flatch” after two seasons, Variety has learned.  
	The mockumentary series aired its final episode on Fox on Feb. 2, with that now serving as the series finale. The show was inspired by the British format “This Country.” 
	“The comedy ‘Welcome to Flatch’ will not be returning to Fox for a third season,” Fox said in a statement. “While audience response was not as strong as we had hoped, we were thrilled with the creativity of the enormously talented Jenny Bicks and Paul Feig, as well as the outstanding, dedicated cast and crew they assembled. We look forward to collaborating with them again in the future and are thankful for all of our partners at Lionsgate, Jenny’s Perkins Street Productions, Paul’s Feigco Entertainment, BBC Studios’ Angie Stephenson, and Charlie Cooper and Daisy May Cooper.”

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					Hollywood Must Define AI Technical Standards to Prep for Its Future    		
			














	
		
					'Monkey Man' Soundtrack Gets Vinyl Release From Waxwork Records		
			






 
	The logline for Season 2 states, “The documentary crew is back to catch up with the residents of Flatch, a small American town. The crew continues to follow cousins and best friends Kelly Mallet (Holmes) and Lloyd “Shrub” Mallet (Sam Straley), who let the cameras in on their lives and local current happenings, such as the revered cane ceremony honoring the oldest person in town and a power outage that turns into the event of the year. The local minister, Joseph “Father Joe” Binghoffer (Seann William Scott), is navigating a rekindled relationship with his former girlfriend, Cheryl Peterson (Aya Cash), the editor of the local newspaper, ‘The Flatch Patriot.'”




			Popular on Variety		




 
	Other cast members included Justin Linville, Taylor Ortega, Krystal Smith, and Jamie Pressly.  
	The series was produced by Lionsgate, BBC Studios’ Los Angeles production arm, and Fox Entertainment. It was executive-produced by Perkins Street Productions’ Bicks, Feigco Entertainment’s Paul Feig, BBC Studios’ Angie Stephenson, and Charlie Cooper and Daisy May Cooper, who created the original BBC series.  
	Fox opted not to order any pilots this year, but instead has given out straight-to-series orders to a number of projects. Those include the live-action shows “Doc” and “Rescue: Hi-Surf,” as well as the animated shows “Krapopolis,” “Grimsburg,” and “Universal Basic Guys/The Hoagie Bros.” “Krapopolis” has already been renewed through Season 3, while “Grimsburg” has already been renewed for Season 2.

	








 
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment