To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. On this week’s episode of Inside the Hive, host Brian Stelter explores Donald Trump’s tangled relationship with Fox News alongside Sarah Ellison, national enterprise reporter at The Washington Post, and Oliver Darcy, senior media reporter at CNN. Trump’s decision this week to skip the first Republican debate on Fox News (and counterprogram with Tucker Carlson) only escalates his war with the Murdochs, even as the cable channel’s hosts remain largely in the former president’s corner. “There is not much love between Rupert Murdoch and Donald Trump these days,” says Darcy. The network is “still doing Trump’s bidding,” he adds, but “there’s no amount of propaganda that Fox News can pedal that will be sufficient for Donald Trump. He always wants more.” Ellison says that “the idea that Trump would be dissatisfied with Fox at this moment, when they are giving him so much free airtime,” is “not surprising because I do think he wants a lot of genuflecting all the time.” And Trump, she says, sees “that the management of Fox News and the Murdochs would rather he disappear.” “Rupert Murdoch, obviously, not a big fan of Donald Trump. Lachlan [Murdoch], not a fan of Donald Trump. But they can’t needle him publicly,” says Darcy. “They can’t make the coverage on Fox News reflect that because their entire business would collapse. And I think at this point it shows that Donald Trump needs Fox a lot less than Fox needs Donald Trump.” DNC 2024: Live Updates From the Democratic National Convention September Cover Star Jenna Ortega Is Settling Into Fame Listen Now: VF’s DYNASTY Podcast Explores the Royals’ Most Challenging Year Exclusive: How Saturday Night Captures SNL’s Wild Opening Night Inside Prince Harry’s Final Showdown With the Murdoch Empire The Twisted True Love Story of a Diamond Heiress and a Reality Star By signing up you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vanity Fair Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment