The Steam Deck was a groundbreaking device when it arrived last year to change what everyone thought handheld gaming could be, and while many competitors’ devices claim to outperform Valve’s handheld, Asus’ ROG Ally could be the first true Steam Deck killer, especially if this leaked pricing info proves to be accurate. First revealed on April 1 as what many people assumed was an April Fools’ Day prank, Asus confirmed the existence of its ROG Ally handheld just a few days later. Powered by an AMD Ryzen Z1/Z1 Extreme process0r, the Asus ROG Ally features a 1080P screen with up to 120Hz refresh rates, support for up to 16GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD storage that’s promised to be easily upgradeable, and it runs Windows 11—the full desktop version of the OS. Unlike the Razer Edge or the Logitech G Cloud, the ROG Ally is not a handheld designed exclusively for game streaming, it’s spec’d to be a handheld gaming PC, and can even be docked to Asus’ ROG XG Mobile eGPU for improved graphical performance and greater resolutions on larger screens. Read more These Winning Close-Up Photos Show Life That's Often Overlooked Remembering Enterprise: The Test Shuttle That Never Flew to Space How To Drop a Pin in Google Maps Hands-on impressions of the Asus ROG Ally have so far been favorable, with the handheld apparently feeling thinner, lighter, and less bulky than the Steam Deck. A few questions still remain about the device, including if its thinner design comes with a trade-off in battery life. But the biggest question is how much will it cost? Valve has been able to price its Steam Deck very competitively because it’s a device that pushes new users towards the company’s Steam store, which happened to generate around $10 billion in revenue last year, of which Valve gets a cut. Asus does not have that, and many have worried that higher spec’d versions of the ROG Ally could potentially cost over $1,000. But according to The Verge, who says it was shown data by Roland Quandt, a gadget leaker with a reliable track record, as well as screenshots from Best Buy’s website shared by Khumail Thakur and SnoopyTech on Twitter, the AMD Z1 Extreme version of the ROG Ally with 512GB of storage will sell for $699.99, or about $50 more expensive than the $649, 512GB version of the Steam Deck. As The Verge also points out, that pricing could very well be a temporary placeholder, as Asus is promising to officially reveal the pricing for all the ROG Ally models on May 11. But $699.99 seems to be a very specific number, and while not cheaper than the Steam Deck, still very competitive given what the new handheld offers. Hopefully, Asus can be just as competitive with pricing for the entry-level model of the ROG Ally, as one of the reasons the Steam Deck became so popular was its $399 price point for the base 64GB model, which is the same price as devices like the Razer Edge which are far less capable. If these leaks are true, Asus could finally deliver mobile gamers a true Steam Deck competitor, and one that can even occasionally boot up Microsoft Word when you need to be productive instead. More from Gizmodo The Best College Science and Tech Programs Fast Food Apps, Ranked Sign up for Gizmodo's Newsletter. For the latest news, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Click here to read the full article. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.