Need help logging in?   Kotek Gov. Tina Kotek was on OPB’s Think Out Loud earlier this week and outlined her priorities for the Legislature’s next session. There were no real surprises. She has consistently made housing her top priority, along with behavioral health and funding the state’s core services. Those are her priorities again. “This is not a time to have a partisan fight over things that frankly they (legislators) dealt with during the long session,” she said. “This is a short session to be focused on the priorities of the state.” She also said — if Oregonians want them — she would be supportive of stronger tools to prevent walkouts from denying a quorum in the Legislature and shutting down any bills from being passed moving.  Oregon’s quorum rules allow a small minority of legislators to control the session and send discussions about bills from where they can be seen by the public to backroom deals. That needs to stop. Tell her if you want those stronger tools. You can find ways to contact her at tinyurl.com/contactKotek. Kotek 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
                                     
Error! There was an error processing your request.
                                         
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here. 
                            Select any of the free newsletter below, enter your email address and click 'Sign Up." 
                         
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
                                     
Error! There was an error processing your request.
                                     When critical news happens, we bring it straight to you to keep you informed. Find out what's happening with the latest events in our community. Discover hidden treasures, unique finds, and unbeatable bargains with your weekly scoop on area garage sales.  Start every day with all the essential news in Central Oregon. A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom. Weekly hiking, biking and outdoor recreation suggestions to help you live your best active life. Going out this weekend? Our entertainment reporters give you the scoop on the local scene. Daily obituaries from Central Oregon Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week. Digital Delivery of The Bulletin eEdition Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist When critical news happens, we bring it straight to you to keep you informed. Find out what's happening with the latest events in our community. Discover hidden treasures, unique finds, and unbeatable bargains with your weekly scoop on area garage sales.  Start every day with all the essential news in Central Oregon. A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom. Weekly hiking, biking and outdoor recreation suggestions to help you live your best active life. Going out this weekend? Our entertainment reporters give you the scoop on the local scene. Daily obituaries from Central Oregon Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week. Digital Delivery of The Bulletin eEdition Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.