Love a bit of cheeky celeb goss? Share your email to get showbiz news, gossip and rumours from the MEN We have more newsletters Love a bit of cheeky celeb goss? Share your email to get showbiz news, gossip and rumours from the MEN We have more newsletters Dancing On Ice fans think they spotted Joey Essex's dancing partner Vanessa Bauer looking "peeved" after his performance of the iconic Bolero in the final of the ITV. The Only Way Is Essex star and his professional skating partner went head to head with Olympic gymnast Nile Wilson on Sunday night (March 12) after RuPaul's Drag Race UK winner The Vivienne finished third. They recreated Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean's famous Olympic gold medal-winning performance, but fans agreed that Vanessa couldn't seem to hide her disappointment. They also thought they clocked Vanessa mouthing instructions to Joey during their Bolero. Voters seemed to agree that his performance fell short as Nile went on to lift the trophy. DavidMackayy tweeted: "Vanessa was talking him through what to do, very clumsy." And @petalthepeeg wrote: "He looked like he forgot half of that. You could see it on Vanessa's face." READ MORE: ITV Dancing On Ice final in chaos as Phil and Holly forced to halt the show as other viewers baffled by filming 'blunder'  @CherylOSulliv12 pointed out: "Vanessa was talking him through the whole routine, not good for a finalist." @MRL2017 asked: "Why was she talking to him/coaching him for half the performance? Did he lose track or something." And @nimble_thief said: "She was counting him back into sync with the routine." @Geordiebird51 said: "Terrible, you could see Vanessa talking him through it …" @SarahBarthorpe1 commented: "Vanessa was telling him what to do all the way through. It was off putting and not sure if he let go to soon." And @sofiepuff89 wrote: "The disappointment all over Vanessa’s face." @petalthepeeg echoed: "He looked like he forgot half of that. You could see it on Vanessa's face." @katienotkaie said: "I think Joey lost his place. Vanessa looked peeved." @xstephster asked: "Is it just me or did Vanessa not look pleased." And @rogernook observed: "Vanessa looks p***ed off after the Bolero." @RyanTheSoapking also said: "Vanessa looked so p***ed off with Joey after that Bolero." And @HiftleJanice agreed: "Vanessa looks furious after that terrible Bolero." @Kaaaaatie_x said: "The furious muttering under her breath absolutely sent me." And @beckismith1993 wrote: "The look on Vanessa face when her name wasn't called." But @Milly197 applauded: "Well done Nile and well done Joey as runner up." And @KatyParkes said: "Well done and congrats Nile and Olivia!! Brilliant and great job by Joey and Vanessa and The Vivienne and Colin fab final and series!" And @totallyangel_xo praoised: "Knew Nile was gonna win, he's very good. Joey Essex though, shown everyone what he can do! Runner up is still an amazing achievement." READ NEXT: Saturday Night Takeaway guest announcer Daisy May-Cooper defended as viewers complain just moments in Celebrity Big Brother and Made in Chelsea star 'so in love' as she welcomes baby girl and shares first photo Major A-lister raves about Manchester cafe as she gives her meal '10 out of 10' The Apprentice star blocked by Lord Sugar in 'awkward' moment after being fired by the business magnate Gemma Atkinson uses one word to sum up fiance Gorka as he returns home to his family 