Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 It was the middle of March and Royce Lewis was planning ahead.He knew the date he was eligible to return from the 60-day injured list — May 29 — and exactly where the Twins would be — Houston.Of course he did.“I want to be back as soon as they let me,” he said in March.At the time, the idea of Lewis coming back the first day he was eligible to return seemed far-fetched, like extreme optimism coming from a player who desperately wanted to return after a second knee surgery.Now, it’s a reality.Twins manager Rocco Baldelli announced Sunday that Lewis will be activated from the injured list ahead of the series opener in Houston. Max Kepler, who has been on the IL with a hamstring strain, will also be activated and outfielders Kyle Garlick and Matt Wallner will be optioned to Triple-A.“I think this is a culmination of a lot of hard work from Royce,” Baldelli said. “I’m excited to see Royce back out on the field. He can jolt you with the enthusiasm and all of the exciting things that he can do, but he’s a good young player and he’s had a long road to get back to this point but he’s put himself in a great position.”

Lewis began a rehab assignment with the Double-A Wichita Wind Surge on May 11. He was transferred to Triple-A days later, where he hit .333 with a 1.099 OPS and four home runs in eight games.He’s done that while splitting his time between third base and shortstop. The Twins do not plan on sending him back out to center field, where he injured his knee, any time soon.And so exactly a year from the date of his knee injury, Lewis is ready to make his triumphant return.“This is exactly where we thought he would be and what we kind of had lined up as a good — I don’t know if optimistic is the right word, but I think we were just responsible with the timeline that we laid out, a realistic, responsible timeline,” Baldelli said. “And he’s reached all the goals that were set.”Castro impressesWilli Castro showed up at camp as a non-roster invite, just trying to make the team.A couple injuries opened the door for him at the time, and the switch-hitting, multi-positional Castro has been making the most of his opportunity — especially lately.“To be honest, the last two, three years, I haven’t had that much opportunity to go out there and show my abilities,” Castro said. “Rocco, he gave me the opportunity to show the talent that I have. I’m just out there and every time I’m in the lineup, I try to do my best and help the team win.”He entered Sunday hitting .258 with a .775 OPS. His 113 OPS+ is a mark that is 13% better than league average. Castro, who had his first-career multi-home run game on Saturday, entered the day leading the team in steals with eight, yet another way he’s impacted the Twins’ roster.The Twins could have opted to send down Castro when Kyle Farmer came back earlier in May. Instead, the slumping Jose Miranda went down to Triple-A and Castro has seized his chance.“Everywhere you look, you see Willi Castro, and I think that’s fantastic,” Baldelli said. “It’s great for us as a group and (I) couldn’t be happier that we were able to bring him over here, and that he wanted to come over here and saw the opportunities that were laid out in front of him. Again, I talk about earning opportunities. This guy’s been a tremendous, charismatic part of the group since Day 1 of spring training. So I think more to come from him.”BrieflyThe Twins will send Sonny Gray, Joe Ryan and Louie Varland to the mound this week in Houston. … Catcher Christian Vázquez, who was acquired by the Astros at the trade deadline last year, is expected to be presented with his World Series ring this week. … Reliever Emilio Pagán left Sunday’s game with what Baldelli called a “minor muscle strain in the hip, groin area.” The Twins will continue to evaluate him and see how he is doing on Monday.Related Articles
Minnesota Twins |  

			What to expect in Minnesota’s primaries		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Twins gain some breathing room with 8-3 victory over Royals		


Minnesota Twins |  

			For Twins’ Royce Lewis, it just has to leave the park		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Twins hand sinking White Sox their 18th straight loss		


Minnesota Twins |  

			Twins activate Royce Lewis for Friday night’s game in Detroit		

 He knew the date he was eligible to return from the 60-day injured list — May 29 — and exactly where the Twins would be — Houston. Of course he did. “I want to be back as soon as they let me,” he said in March. At the time, the idea of Lewis coming back the first day he was eligible to return seemed far-fetched, like extreme optimism coming from a player who desperately wanted to return after a second knee surgery. Now, it’s a reality. Twins manager Rocco Baldelli announced Sunday that Lewis will be activated from the injured list ahead of the series opener in Houston. Max Kepler, who has been on the IL with a hamstring strain, will also be activated and outfielders Kyle Garlick and Matt Wallner will be optioned to Triple-A. “I think this is a culmination of a lot of hard work from Royce,” Baldelli said. “I’m excited to see Royce back out on the field. He can jolt you with the enthusiasm and all of the exciting things that he can do, but he’s a good young player and he’s had a long road to get back to this point but he’s put himself in a great position.” Lewis began a rehab assignment with the Double-A Wichita Wind Surge on May 11. He was transferred to Triple-A days later, where he hit .333 with a 1.099 OPS and four home runs in eight games. He’s done that while splitting his time between third base and shortstop. The Twins do not plan on sending him back out to center field, where he injured his knee, any time soon. And so exactly a year from the date of his knee injury, Lewis is ready to make his triumphant return. “This is exactly where we thought he would be and what we kind of had lined up as a good — I don’t know if optimistic is the right word, but I think we were just responsible with the timeline that we laid out, a realistic, responsible timeline,” Baldelli said. “And he’s reached all the goals that were set.” Willi Castro showed up at camp as a non-roster invite, just trying to make the team. A couple injuries opened the door for him at the time, and the switch-hitting, multi-positional Castro has been making the most of his opportunity — especially lately. “To be honest, the last two, three years, I haven’t had that much opportunity to go out there and show my abilities,” Castro said. “Rocco, he gave me the opportunity to show the talent that I have. I’m just out there and every time I’m in the lineup, I try to do my best and help the team win.” He entered Sunday hitting .258 with a .775 OPS. His 113 OPS+ is a mark that is 13% better than league average. Castro, who had his first-career multi-home run game on Saturday, entered the day leading the team in steals with eight, yet another way he’s impacted the Twins’ roster. The Twins could have opted to send down Castro when Kyle Farmer came back earlier in May. Instead, the slumping Jose Miranda went down to Triple-A and Castro has seized his chance. “Everywhere you look, you see Willi Castro, and I think that’s fantastic,” Baldelli said. “It’s great for us as a group and (I) couldn’t be happier that we were able to bring him over here, and that he wanted to come over here and saw the opportunities that were laid out in front of him. Again, I talk about earning opportunities. This guy’s been a tremendous, charismatic part of the group since Day 1 of spring training. So I think more to come from him.” The Twins will send Sonny Gray, Joe Ryan and Louie Varland to the mound this week in Houston. … Catcher Christian Vázquez, who was acquired by the Astros at the trade deadline last year, is expected to be presented with his World Series ring this week. … Reliever Emilio Pagán left Sunday’s game with what Baldelli called a “minor muscle strain in the hip, groin area.” The Twins will continue to evaluate him and see how he is doing on Monday. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group