Digital identity is set to take on greater prominence in Canada, with a rollout on LinkedIn and a plan to bring numerous government services online for easier access. Clear has been providing free biometric identity verification for LinkedIn users in the U.S. since earlier this year. Now, Canada has been chosen as the first country outside of America for the service to expand to. There are 22 million LinkedIn users in Canada, according to the announcement. “When you verify your identity with Clear on LinkedIn, you’re more likely to be considered for a job, have your in-mail opened, and build connections — it’s that simple,” says Clear CEO Caryn Seidman Becker. There are 700 million LinkedIn users outside of North America in around 200 countries, by LinkedIn’s own count. The expansion also fits with Clear’s plans to further diversify applications of its service beyond the travel space. Canada’s government also recently created a new cabinet position for minister of government services, and Tery Beech, first to hold the new role, says it will involve moving federal services from passports to payments online, reports the CBC. Beech tells the CBC that the position was created to make government services “digital first,” though details are scant pending the issuance of a mandate letter. The move was prompted in part by delays in passport issuance and renewals, which peaked with a backlog of 316,000 applications in 2022. Economic efficiency is also a likely motivation. A white paper published earlier this year by ATB Ventures declared the time ripe for the adoption of digital ID in both the public and private sectors, and cited DIACC’s estimate of a potential $15 billion Canadian (US$11.3 billion) annual gain in GDP. The Department of Employment and Social Development (ESDC) will support Beech’s efforts, with Service Canada reporting to the new minister. The Canada Digital Service, which is responsible for developing government digital resources like apps, has been transferred from the Treasury Department to the ESDC. biometrics  |  Canada  |  CLEAR  |  digital identity  |  government services  |  identity verification  |  LinkedIn A pair of executive hirings have been revealed in biometrics and digital ID as Idex Biometrics has promoted Catharine Eklof… A newly discovered vulnerability in Microsoft’s Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory) has exposed a critical threat to hybrid cloud… One-stop digital registration is now available for residents of Macau who are getting married or having a child. The key… ID30 is looking for partners as it develops a set of recommendations for advancing legal identity and civil registration in… The long-awaited national ID card renewal and enrollment program in Uganda is now expected to begin in mid-October, according to… “Orbs coming to Malaysia,” says a new announcement from Worldcoin. “Verify your humanness.” The iris biometrics, digital ID and cryptocurrency… This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Continue Reading Learn More Copyright © 2024 Biometrics Research Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Web Design by Studio1337