
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- America News Hour)   In-depth Analysis and Data-driven Insights on the Impact of COVID-19 Included in this Global Recreational Vehicle market Report  The global recreational vehicle market by revenue is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 7% during the period 2022–2031.The global recreational vehicle market size to reach $42 billion in 2020 and is projected to grow on account of the increasing demand for camping and outdoor recreational activities in the millennial population, especially in the US. In the US, the number of active camp households increased by 1.4 million in 2018. The growing number of active campers is contributing to the demand for RVs. The commercial usage of RV is on the rise. The rental facilities are boosting the growth of the market. The growth in peer-to-peer rental services is also influencing the popularity among millennials, which are increasingly seeking rental services.Because of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the global recreational vehicle market is expected to witness rapid growth, especially in North America and Europe. As these vehicles provide a reliable and personal way to travel, it is considered the safest travel alternative during the coronavirus pandemic, while maintaining social distance norms. While the spread of virus and limitations for travel and transportation is stringent, the demand for RV is expected to grow across geographies in 2020. Further, the increasing demand for road trips as a getaway from quarantine would also boost growth. The post lockdown period is likely to witness the rise in the number of first-time buyers.
  Download The Sample PDF Report Here:    The following factors are likely to contribute to the growth of the recreational vehicle market during the forecast period:     Increase in Recreational Vehicle Rental Services   Introduction of Smart & Autonomous Technology   Growth in Demand for Adventure Camping   Millennials influencing Recreational Vehicle Market   The study considers the present scenario of the global recreational vehicle market and its market dynamics for the period 2022−2031. It covers a detailed overview of several market growth enablers, restraints, and trends. The report offers both the demand and supply aspect of the market. It profiles and examines leading companies and other prominent ones operating in the market.  Recreational Vehicle Market Segmentation  
The recreational vehicle market research report includes a detailed segmentation by Product, application, and geography. The towable recreational vehicle market is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 6% during the period 2022–2031. Towable RVs are more prevalent in North America than in Europe. The shipment accounted for 89% of the total shipments in North America in 2022. Travel trailers are the most popular towable segment. Consumers mostly prefer them as they are the most inexpensive. They are cheaper and more straightforward than motorhomes and are also available in a wide range of designs, sizes, and prices.Motorhomes are available in three varieties – Class A, Class B, and Class C. The Class A segment is one of the most common motorized RVs. It accounted for over 40% of the global motorhome revenue in 2022. Class B motorhomes accounted for over 12% of the worldwide motorhome revenue in 2022, and the segment is witnessing the fastest growth. They are typically more affordable to maintain and have better fuel economy than larger counterparts. The class C segment is expected to reach over $13 billion by 2031. Class C combines the best features of both Class A and B into a more versatile and affordable mid-size motorhome. Class A motorized are expected to continue to dominate in terms of revenue, contributing approx. 50% of the global recreational vehicle market share in 2022.Private ownership of RV has been dominating the shipments; however, the market scenario is changing rapidly. The commercial usage of RV is growing substantially in rental agencies and businesses. The growth in online rental websites and applications has further eased the process of renting, boosting the demand in the tech-savvy millennial population. North America also dominated the commercial sales in 2022 and is likely to dominate during the forecast period. The US is the largest commercial RV market across the globe, which is primarily dominated by rental agencies.The RV ownership reached nine million in 2022. The rapid rise in ownership indicates a resurgent interest in the RV lifestyle. With an increasing number of millennials embracing this lifestyle, the demand is expected to further boost during the forecast period. About 38% of the 40 million recreational vehicle owners in the US are millennials. The rise in camping trailers & activities is a major factor driving the growth of the segment.  Segmentation by Products     Towable RV   o Travel Trailerso Fifth Wheelo Folding Utility Trailerso Sports Utility Trailers/Toy Haulers   Motorized RV   o Class Ao Class Bo Class C
  Segmentation by Application     Private   Commercial     INSIGHTS BY GEOGRAPHY  
The North American recreational vehicle market is the largest across the globe. RV is highly popular among Americans, and over 11% of households own an RV. Over 1 million households in the US live in RV full time. It allows traveling at 20–60% less cost, which is mainly driving the popularity of RV among millennials. The recreational vehicle market contributes an overall $114 billion to the US economy, employing over 600,000 people. Thus, RV is one of the global industries in the US economy. Millennials are particularly driving the market for a recreational vehicle in North America. About 44% of campers in 2018 reported being interested in traveling in RV across different destinations.  Segmentation by Geography     North America   o USo Canada   Europe   o UKo Germanyo Franceo Spaino Netherlands   APAC   o Chinao Japano Australia   Latin America   o Brazilo Mexico   Middle East & Africa   o Saudi Arabiao Turkeyo South Africa  INSIGHTS BY VENDORS  
Low entry barriers characterize the global recreational vehicle market, and it is intensely competitive with the presence of several manufacturers selling products that compete directly through product features. Thor Industries, Forest River, Winnebago Industries, and REV Group are some of the key vendors operating in the market. The competition is based upon price, design, value, quality, insurance coverage, and service. North America constitutes the largest RV market globally, with US brands dominating the global RV industry. Low entry barriers result in numerous existing and potential RV manufacturing competitors.
  Request The Sample PDF Report Here:    Prominent Vendors     Thor Industries   Forest River   Winnebago Industries   REV Group     Other Prominent Vendors     Adria Mobil   Auto-Trail   Dethleffs   Gulf Stream Coach   Knaus Tabbert   Nexus RV   Rapido Group   Rimor   Tiffin Motorhomes   Triple E Recreational Vehicles   Bailey of Bristol   Auto-sleepers   Fendt Caravan   Giottiline   Oliver Travels   Phoenix USA RV   Custom Coach   Pleasure-way   Roadtrek   Adventurer LP Manufacturer     KEY QUESTIONS ANSWERED  
1. What is the recreational vehicle (RV) market size and growth rate during the forecast period?
2. What are the factors influencing the North American recreational vehicle market growth?
3. What are some of the smart and autonomous technology incorporated in the recreational vehicle?
4. Who are the leading RV industry competitors and what is the market share of Thor Industries?
5. What is the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the recreational vehicle market trends?
  About SDKI :  
The dynamic nature of the business environment in the current global economy is raising the need amongst business professionals to update themselves with current situations in the market. To cater such needs, Shibuya Data Count ( SDKI ) provides market research reports to various business professionals across different industry verticals, such as healthcare & pharmaceutical, IT & telecom, chemicals and advanced materials, consumer goods & food, energy & power, manufacturing & construction, industrial automation & equipment and agriculture & allied activities amongst others.
  MENAFN21122022004545010068ID1105336047   In-depth Analysis and Data-driven Insights on the Impact of COVID-19 Included in this Global Recreational Vehicle market Report  The global recreational vehicle market by revenue is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 7% during the period 2022–2031.The global recreational vehicle market size to reach $42 billion in 2020 and is projected to grow on account of the increasing demand for camping and outdoor recreational activities in the millennial population, especially in the US. In the US, the number of active camp households increased by 1.4 million in 2018. The growing number of active campers is contributing to the demand for RVs. The commercial usage of RV is on the rise. The rental facilities are boosting the growth of the market. The growth in peer-to-peer rental services is also influencing the popularity among millennials, which are increasingly seeking rental services.Because of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the global recreational vehicle market is expected to witness rapid growth, especially in North America and Europe. As these vehicles provide a reliable and personal way to travel, it is considered the safest travel alternative during the coronavirus pandemic, while maintaining social distance norms. While the spread of virus and limitations for travel and transportation is stringent, the demand for RV is expected to grow across geographies in 2020. Further, the increasing demand for road trips as a getaway from quarantine would also boost growth. The post lockdown period is likely to witness the rise in the number of first-time buyers.   Download The Sample PDF Report Here:    The following factors are likely to contribute to the growth of the recreational vehicle market during the forecast period:   The study considers the present scenario of the global recreational vehicle market and its market dynamics for the period 2022−2031. It covers a detailed overview of several market growth enablers, restraints, and trends. The report offers both the demand and supply aspect of the market. It profiles and examines leading companies and other prominent ones operating in the market.  Recreational Vehicle Market Segmentation   The recreational vehicle market research report includes a detailed segmentation by Product, application, and geography. The towable recreational vehicle market is expected to grow at a CAGR of over 6% during the period 2022–2031. Towable RVs are more prevalent in North America than in Europe. The shipment accounted for 89% of the total shipments in North America in 2022. Travel trailers are the most popular towable segment. Consumers mostly prefer them as they are the most inexpensive. They are cheaper and more straightforward than motorhomes and are also available in a wide range of designs, sizes, and prices.Motorhomes are available in three varieties – Class A, Class B, and Class C. The Class A segment is one of the most common motorized RVs. It accounted for over 40% of the global motorhome revenue in 2022. Class B motorhomes accounted for over 12% of the worldwide motorhome revenue in 2022, and the segment is witnessing the fastest growth. They are typically more affordable to maintain and have better fuel economy than larger counterparts. The class C segment is expected to reach over $13 billion by 2031. Class C combines the best features of both Class A and B into a more versatile and affordable mid-size motorhome. Class A motorized are expected to continue to dominate in terms of revenue, contributing approx. 50% of the global recreational vehicle market share in 2022.Private ownership of RV has been dominating the shipments; however, the market scenario is changing rapidly. The commercial usage of RV is growing substantially in rental agencies and businesses. The growth in online rental websites and applications has further eased the process of renting, boosting the demand in the tech-savvy millennial population. North America also dominated the commercial sales in 2022 and is likely to dominate during the forecast period. The US is the largest commercial RV market across the globe, which is primarily dominated by rental agencies.The RV ownership reached nine million in 2022. The rapid rise in ownership indicates a resurgent interest in the RV lifestyle. With an increasing number of millennials embracing this lifestyle, the demand is expected to further boost during the forecast period. About 38% of the 40 million recreational vehicle owners in the US are millennials. The rise in camping trailers & activities is a major factor driving the growth of the segment.  Segmentation by Products   o Travel Trailerso Fifth Wheelo Folding Utility Trailerso Sports Utility Trailers/Toy Haulers o Class Ao Class Bo Class C   Segmentation by Application     INSIGHTS BY GEOGRAPHY   The North American recreational vehicle market is the largest across the globe. RV is highly popular among Americans, and over 11% of households own an RV. Over 1 million households in the US live in RV full time. It allows traveling at 20–60% less cost, which is mainly driving the popularity of RV among millennials. The recreational vehicle market contributes an overall $114 billion to the US economy, employing over 600,000 people. Thus, RV is one of the global industries in the US economy. Millennials are particularly driving the market for a recreational vehicle in North America. About 44% of campers in 2018 reported being interested in traveling in RV across different destinations.  Segmentation by Geography   o USo Canada o UKo Germanyo Franceo Spaino Netherlands o Chinao Japano Australia o Brazilo Mexico o Saudi Arabiao Turkeyo South Africa  INSIGHTS BY VENDORS   Low entry barriers characterize the global recreational vehicle market, and it is intensely competitive with the presence of several manufacturers selling products that compete directly through product features. Thor Industries, Forest River, Winnebago Industries, and REV Group are some of the key vendors operating in the market. The competition is based upon price, design, value, quality, insurance coverage, and service. North America constitutes the largest RV market globally, with US brands dominating the global RV industry. Low entry barriers result in numerous existing and potential RV manufacturing competitors.   Request The Sample PDF Report Here:    Prominent Vendors     Other Prominent Vendors     KEY QUESTIONS ANSWERED   1. What is the recreational vehicle (RV) market size and growth rate during the forecast period? 2. What are the factors influencing the North American recreational vehicle market growth? 3. What are some of the smart and autonomous technology incorporated in the recreational vehicle? 4. Who are the leading RV industry competitors and what is the market share of Thor Industries? 5. What is the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the recreational vehicle market trends?   About SDKI :   The dynamic nature of the business environment in the current global economy is raising the need amongst business professionals to update themselves with current situations in the market. To cater such needs, Shibuya Data Count ( SDKI ) provides market research reports to various business professionals across different industry verticals, such as healthcare & pharmaceutical, IT & telecom, chemicals and advanced materials, consumer goods & food, energy & power, manufacturing & construction, industrial automation & equipment and agriculture & allied activities amongst others.    MENAFN21122022004545010068ID1105336047 MENAFN21122022004545010068ID1105336047 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN