The Los Angeles Amazon-brand aggregator Boosted Commerce has laid off 16 employees, following a smaller round of layoffs last year, a person familiar with the matter told Insider. A spokesperson for Boosted Commerce confirmed to Insider that the layoffs occurred, and affected 20% of its US-based, full-time staff. The cuts were part of an effort to better target market sectors the aggregator had been having the most success in, such as wholesale retail brands, the spokesperson said. They also told Insider that the company is still currently hiring for roles in these more focused departments.  A former Boosted Commerce employee told Insider several of the employees affected by the latest round of layoffs were at the director level, with at least one vice president being let go. The former employee was granted anonymity because they signed a nondisclosure agreement, but their identity is known to Insider. The former employee also said Boosted Commerce was "struggling" as a result of "bad acquisitions and the state of the overall economy." A company spokesperson pushed back against those claims, adding that it was not looking to get acquired itself.  The news comes as the great tech pullback is in full swing, and hundreds of startups have cut thousands of jobs since the end of 2022. Last summer, Boosted Commerce laid off about 5% of its employees in what CEO Keith Richman said at the time was a move "to reallocate investment into different resource buckets." Those job cuts came amid the first rocky wave for Amazon aggregator startups, which buy and manage third-party brands and sellers that are already profitable on Amazon and then try to optimize their operations to increase margins. The sector has been moving towards increased consolidation over the past few months, with Heroes, Suma, and Thrasio announcing significant staff cuts in the middle of 2022.  Boosted Commerce has raised $380 million in outside funding to date, according to Marketplace Pulse. The Amazon aggregator market has seen significant business struggles as the online retail market suffered in the second half of 2022 and venture capitalists have tightened their purse strings in a high inflationary market.  
                                Read next
                               Jump to