Founders of Lifelong Online have bought back a majority ownership and control in the Indian house of brands from Thrasio in what appears to be a retreat for the "Amazon aggregator" from the key overseas market. Existing investors of Lifelong, Tanglin Venture Partners and Hero Enterprise, also increased their ownership in Lifelong Online. Thrasio will continue to be "an active investor and a strategic partner" of Lifelong Online, the Gurgaon-headquartered startup said Thursday. Lifelong Online served as the vehicle for Thrasio's India ambitions. The global firm acquired a majority stake in the Indian startup in early 2022 for somewhere between $150 million to $200 million, according to an earlier report by The Economic Times. Thrasio committed to spending over $500 million to acquire businesses in India at the time. It made no other investment in the South Asian market. "We are thrilled to embark on this new chapter and continue our journey with the support of our stakeholders," a Lifelong spokesperson said in a statement. "India presents an incredible opportunity for us, and we believe that with our combined expertise, we can make a significant impact in the market. One thing that will remain unchanged is the strong commercial and strategic partnership between Lifelong and Thrasio." Thrasio, Razor, Perch and many other Amazon "aggregators" that raised over $16 billion, mostly in debt, are struggling to retain momentum as demand for their businesses cools and interest rates rise. Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. When Marlon realised his daughter was being groomed and sexually exploited by grown men, he engaged with police, doing everything he could to keep his 14-year-old child safe.  "For a child who has been groomed and then taken to a police station to be strip searched is just massively inappropriate, its appalling," says Marlon.  The search was conducted by female officers in front of a glass door, says Marlon, meaning she was also visible to male officers. The criminals and their close associates held more than S$370 million at more than a dozen financial institutions, according to court records compiled by Bloomberg. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Todor Merdjanov spent one month at Kim Il Sung University in Pyongyang in 2013. He wants more people to know what the country is like from the inside. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok Hillary Clinton basked in some karmic revenge against Donald Trump on Monday night as the crowd at the Democratic National Convention chanted “lock him up,” eight years after the now convicted felon defeated her.“Donald Trump fell asleep at his own trial,” Clinton said. “When he woke up, he’d made his own kind of history: the first person to run for president with 34 felony convictions.”The comment thrilled the crowd. “Lock him up,” they chanted, interrupting the speech. Clinton smiled and nodde On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window Donald Trump has posted a series of AI-generated images on his Truth Social account falsely claiming that Taylor Swift has endorsed him for president. On Sunday night, Trump shared several screenshots of X posts showing women wearing “Swifties for Trump” shirts. Many of the photos appear to have been doctored, and one screenshot is of … "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv The post Teo Heng Teochew Porridge: 70-year-old heritage Teochew porridge stall with lava eggs & stuffed tau pok appeared first on SETHLUI.com.