Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Palia entered open beta in August, bringing its vision of a cozy MMO to PC gamers. The game is supposed to launch on Switch later this year and has been gaining traction due to its unique combination of genres. While MMOs like World of Warcraft and Final Fantasy 14 are popular, and cozy life sim games like Stardew Valley are as well, Palia is a rare combination of the two. With a focus on community building and multiplayer gameplay, Palia has introduced several new ideas to both genres, but if it hopes to have continued success, it needs to make some big changes.
                         The foundation of Palia is cooperative life sim gameplay. Together, players can build homes, craft items, gather resources, hunt, and fish. Exploration is also a big part of Palia. One of the game's most charming features is its Flow Trees, which require multiple players to cut down. Other tasks in Palia require multiple people to complete as well, encouraging players to build communities with one another contributing to the game's cozy vibe. While these mechanics are engaging and innovative, the game is bare-bones in its current state, and developer Singularity Six needs to ensure that the game keeps growing.
      RELATED: Why Animal Crossing Will Likely Never Get This Palia Feature
                     One of the ways that Palia can grow is by expanding its open world. As of now, the game has two main zones with places to explore and gather resources. While exploration is not one of the key pillars of the game, MMOs are theoretically endless, and the game's world isn't large enough to keep players engaged forever. Many of the best MMOs have huge worlds packed with optional content, and Palia needs to follow suit if it wants to find success. Since the game doesn't have raiding or difficult high-level content, its world needs to be bigger and filled with more things than the average MMO.
      Palia also needs to come to more platforms. While the PC and Switch have substantial player bases, the game is niche and would benefit from being more widely available. Additionally, the Switch is aging, and how the Switch version of Palia will run on it remains a mystery. After 10 years, Final Fantasy 14 is coming to Xbox. While Palia is a much smaller game, skipping PlayStation and Xbox systems would be a mistake that could hurt the overall player base size and the game's longevity.
                         While hunting is a big part of Palia, its implementation is currently weak at best. The game features two types of huntable creatures, each with three variants. While hunts must be simple to keep things cozy, there needs to be more for players to hunt. Since players hunt for resources, the lack of different creatures means that there is little sense of scarcity. Expanding hunting in Palia will help to make its resource management aspect more engaging as well. New huntable creatures could be localized to certain parts of zones, encouraging exploration and making the world feel more alive as well. Fishing in Palia is more intricate, and the hunting should be updated to meet the same quality standard.
                         Another simple change the Palia can make is updating furniture to be interactive. While players have plenty of things to craft for their homes, it's mostly just for show. Not being able to use furniture diminishes immersion, especially in social situations, which is a big draw for MMOs. Palia needs to make its world and the objects that occupy it more interactive for its players. While Palia is still in its early days, there are plenty of lessons that Animal Crossing and other cozy games can learn from it. Palia stands out among other games in the genres it pulls from, so hopefully it can keep growing and innovating.
      Palia is now available in open beta on PC.
      MORE: Palia Is The Perfect Blueprint For A Hogwarts Legacy-Style MMO
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Stardew Valley has received some special treatment outside of its gameplay, and it would make sense for Haunted Chocolatier to do something similar. Ethan Nestor, also known as CrankGameplays on YouTube, receives a Twitch ban after finishing a successful subathon on the platform. Shanks is a major player in the final saga. One Piece 1124 sets up the begining of Elbaf. Dexter: Resurrection will continue Dexter Morgan's dark story, but what do fans think is going to happen in the new series? Silent Hill 2 releases a new video which shows off portions of the story, along with several familiar characters, including Eddie. PlayStation Plus experiences a bump in its player count this month, which seems to be thanks to an especially popular game featured in its new lineup. A Pokemon fan designs a new form for Rotom, reimagining the iconic Electric/Ghost-type creature from Gen 4 as a coffee machine.