Recently, a local nonprofit organization, Hope Coalition, hosted a community event at Blue Ridge Community College featuring author Nic Sheff. At the event, Sheff shared his life story with substance misuse that started when he was just 11 years old. It was devastating to listen to Sheff’s story where he described having felt “not quite right” and “unlike other kids” when he was a child. Sheff told the audience that a friend of his brought marijuana stolen from an older sibling to Sheff’s house when he came for a sleepover. The two children tried the drug, and Sheff says that he remembers feeling better when he got high. Sheff described it as the first time in his life that he felt good. That was when 11-year-old Sheff decided he needed to continue using marijuana so that he could feel better. As the presentation went on, Sheff described an adolescence filled with drug use; as he built up a tolerance to marijuana, he was constantly on the hunt for something else that would allow him to “feel better” like he had upon first trying drugs. Eventually, Sheff found crystal meth and the subsequent addiction nearly killed him. What I found most troublesome in listening to Sheff’s arduous experiences was that he said he never told anyone why he started using drugs as a child. More importantly, it seems that no one ever asked. After many failed attempts at sobriety, Sheff was eventually diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder. Sheff now knows that, as a child, he may have been experiencing early symptoms of a mental illness which caused him to feel different. He was in pain that he didn’t know how to verbalize at the time, and he believed no one would understand even if he tried to explain it. All Sheff knew was that he felt better when he used drugs, so he self-medicated. Unfortunately, Sheff’s story is far too common. There are many people in our community who experience symptoms of mental illness and do not get professional help. The connection between mental health and substance use should not be overlooked. Many people may attempt to self-medicate with substances when they are experiencing symptoms of mental illness, and this can lead to serious complications such as misuse and/or dependency on those substances. Sheff has been clean and sober for years now and has found success as an author. He often speaks at events such as the one I attended at Blue Ridge Community College. Sheff shares his story with others in the hope that he might be able to help someone who is struggling in the same way he did for all those years. Thrive is a nonprofit organization in Hendersonville that serves individuals with severe mental illness at their Clubhouse location. Thrive staff sometimes observe substance misuse with Clubhouse members, and it is so important to address that issue and treat it as an illness that requires treatment. Thrive staff are thankful for agencies in our community like Hope Coalition who are working to make services more accessible for people of all ages and income levels to get help with this addiction. Thrive staff also want to make sure that community members are paying attention to their mental health. It’s crucial to address symptoms of mental illness rather than ignoring them or attempting to self-medicate with drugs or alcohol. As in Sheff’s case, sometimes these substances can mask the symptoms or make someone feel better temporarily, but they are not the answer. If you are experiencing symptoms of mental illness like anxiety or depression, Thrive staff encourage you to talk with your doctor. They can offer advice and assist you with getting the right kind of help. Thrive staff also want people to be sure and check on their loved ones. If you have concerns about a friend or family member, the best thing to do is be supportive: ask questions, offer help, and keep checking in. Also remember that, like Sheff, even children can struggle with their mental health. Don’t assume that a child is too young to have real stressors. Check in with yourself, and check in with your loved ones. You can learn more about Thrive’s mental health services by visiting the website at thrive4health.org. Learn more about the work of Hope Coalition at elementsofhope.org. Tracey Gruver is the development and communications director at Thrive This article originally appeared on Hendersonville Times-News: Thrive: Sheff's story of substance misuse is far too common Our editors will email you a roundup of their favourite stories from across AOL Advertisement Advertisement Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Advertisement