Sheffield United's Iliman Ndiaye is the man for the big occasion and is the one player who can really hurt Man City later today, according to his team-mate Yorkshire breaking news and updates sent straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Yorkshire breaking news and updates sent straight to your inbox We have more newsletters While all the talk in the build-up to today's FA Cup semi-final against Man City has been about facing one of the best teams in the world right now, one member of the Sheffield United dressing room insists it must not be overlooked that they too have players who can deliver on the big stage. So big is the challenge facing his side today, manager Paul Heckingbottom said yesterday that 'no one on the planet believes we can win' as they come up against a side boasting an array of top-class players. In Erling Haaland, they have the hottest striker in world football right now and whichever XI Pep Guardiola plumps for on the day, it is likely to include an international player in every position such is the depth of talent at his disposal. READ MORE: Sheffield United notebook: Key deal struck to lift transfer embargo, Wembley plan, Norwood class City are, understandably, heavy favourites for this one and it would be seen as a huge shock if Sheffield United reached their first FA Cup final since a 1-0 defeat to Arsenal way back in 1936. If United are to do that and send headlines around the world they know there will be times in the match when they will have to try and hurt City and their dominance of the ball. Do they have the players to do that? Ollie Norwood, who featured in all four matches against City when the two sides met in the Premier League recently, says they do. But not only that, there is one player in the Sheffield United dressing room who will love nothing more than showing what he can do on the big stage. "Yeah, definitely. We've got some really good talent in the squad," he said. "We're not in the position we are in the league by just booting the ball forward. We've got some really good footballers at the club. "One in particular in Iliman. It's the big stage and I am not meaning to put any extra pressure on him but I'm pretty sure he will thrive on the occasion and that big stage because he's a big-game player. "Other players have played in big occasions and big games, too. It's time for them to step forward and go and embrace it." 