Alexa Williams has joined the Thrive Regional Partnership team as the director of Marketing and Communications. She brings eight years of experience in constituent services and communications work in various government offices at the state and federal level.  Ms. Williams spent almost seven years on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., working in various roles for two Members of Congress; Congressman John J. Duncan Jr. of Tennessee and Congressman John Moolenaar, of Michigan.  During her time working with Congressman Duncan, Ms. Williams helped drive changes to improve efficiency in navigating digital correspondence and access to federal resources for constituents in East Tennessee.  While working with Congressman Moolenaar, Ms. Williams created and maintained collaborative bipartisan relationships with constituents, associations, and official House of Representatives support teams to construct solutions and reach mutually common goals for both large scale event planning and daily operations.  Underlying Ms. Williams’s achievements is a bachelor’s degree in Communications with a minor in Speech from UTC, and a master’s degree in Strategic Defense Studies with a concentration in Leadership and Ethics from the Naval War College.   In her role, Ms. Williams will highlight the mission of Thrive while raising awareness and presenting engagement opportunities for community residents and stakeholders within the 16 counties across the Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee region known as the Cradle of Southern Appalachia.  Focused on inspiring responsible growth through conversation, connection and collaboration, Thrive’s main impact areas include a core focus on community prosperity, natural treasures, infrastructure, and transportation.  Born and raised in Chattanooga, Ms. Williams said she is excited to be back in her hometown to join the Thrive Team and raise awareness about the powerful initiatives of the partnership.  Thrive Regional Partnership inspires responsible growth through conversation, connection, and collaboration across the tri-state greater Chattanooga region. To learn more, visit www.thriveregional partnership.org.  Chris Hopkins, co-founder and principal of Apogee Wealth Partners, shares his career highlights - all the way back to age six when he was selling vacuums with his grandmother, to being a plant ...  more Clint Powell interviewed Dylan Rivera, director of policy planning and implementation for the office of Chattanooga Mayor Tim Kelly. 
 He discussed why he got into politics, living in California ...  more Today the number of megawatts needed in the country is almost equal to the capacity that is produced, said EPB CEO David Wade. But that need is quickly increasing and EPB is planning ahead for ...  more