Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Monday - Friday, 6:00 - 7:00 PM ET CEO Eric Hansotia of agriculture-machinery manufacturer Agco told CNBC's Jim Cramer on Friday that elevated grain prices — and the high cost of food — will persist, even if Russia's invasion of Ukraine ended tomorrow. Both Russia and Ukraine serve as major global grain suppliers, with the latter often referred to as the "breadbasket of Europe," and so when the war broke out in February 2022 it sent the world's food supply chain into turmoil. When Hansotia sat down with "Mad Money" last March, he told Cramer "13% of the global calories came out of production" when Russian and Ukraine borders shut down. Coupled with climate issues — namely droughts across Europe and North America — the food supply chain disaster spurred by the Russia's invasion is not likely to fade anytime soon, according to Hansotia. "Even if [the war] were to end tomorrow, there's a long-standing degradation in the ability for that area to grow crops, and so it's going to be with the market for quite some time," he said. Despite grain supply chain issues, Agco — which sells big-ticket agriculture equipment like tractors and combines — recently reported a successful quarter. The company raised its full-year forecast substantially, and net sales hit $3.3 billion, beating the consensus estimate of $3.16 billion. Even so, Agco's sales have fallen roughly 15% from their post-quarter high. But Hansotia reaffirmed a strong demand for Agco's products well into next year, highlighting grain's declining stock-to-use ratio coupled with decreasing production costs for farmers. "The stocks-to use-ratio — essentially how much grain is in the market — has been coming down for six years in a row," Hansotia told Cramer. "That's one of the best indicators of how much demand is going to be out there, that is a buoy for grain prices. At the same time, the input cost for our farmers, diesel, fertilizer, and other things — are actually coming down, and these are costs that can be locked in for next year." Click here to download Jim Cramer's Guide to Investing at no cost to help you build long-term wealth and invest smarter. Sign up now for the CNBC Investing Club to follow Jim Cramer's every move in the market. Disclaimer Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by