
1 in 4 millennials say they’ve moved or sold their house because they thought it was haunted.
 Thumbtack launches Haunted Homes Hotline to help people tackle their home horrors ahead of Halloween. Thumbtack launches Haunted Homes Hotline to help people tackle their home horrors ahead of Halloween.  SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--40 percent of millennials say they’ve lived in a haunted house. But homes don’t start out haunted – they simply feel that way because people are in the dark about what’s really going on, and don’t know where to begin or who to call. Thumbtack, the technology company helping millions of people confidently care for and improve their homes, is opening up a dedicated Haunted Homes Hotline to rid your home of “ghosts.”

  
Ahead of Halloween, hotline callers will get guidance from a Thumbtack home specialist, to determine if there really is something otherworldly happening — or if they just need to better understand their home troubles and call in the right pros to fix them.

 
To participate:

 
“We know starting a home project can feel scary, but procrastinating on home maintenance inevitably leads to more costly repairs down the line,” said David Steckel, Home Expert at Thumbtack. “Whether it’s a bright new coat of paint or repairing creaky floors, Thumbtack provides personalized guidance on what to do, when to do it, and who to hire to help keep your home in good shape all year long.”

 
To get to the bottom of what’s haunting homes across the country, Thumbtack conducted a survey of over 1,000 millennials. Key findings include:

 
From small fixes and routine maintenance to major improvements, Thumbtack is the only app you need to care for your home from top to bottom. Visit www.thumbtack.com/haunted to learn more — or download the app to get rid of your “ghosts” once and for all.

 
*Terms and Conditions: Offer valid through October 31, 2023. Calling does not guarantee a response. If you leave a message, you consent to a callback at any time. Discount and opportunity to speak with the celebrity is at Thumbtack’s discretion. Discount applicable to one project of $51 or more (before tax & tip) booked and paid for through Thumbtack. Not all Service Professionals accept payment through Thumbtack, so check with your Service Professional first. Discounts cannot be stacked, do not apply to On-Demand projects, and are for one-time use only. Discounts are subject to Thumbtack’s Consumer Discounts Terms and Conditions and Thumbtack's Terms of Use.

 
ABOUT THUMBTACK
 
We’re Thumbtack, a technology company helping millions of people confidently care for and improve their homes. Our homeowners get personalized guidance on what to do and when to do it as well as who to hire from our growing community of 300,000 local service businesses. Every day in every county of the U.S., people turn to Thumbtack to complete small fixes, routine maintenance, and major improvements. With over 10 million 5-star projects and counting, we empower homeowners to take control and local businesses to grow. Accomplish more with Thumbtack.

 
Laura Arrubla Toro
press@thumbtack.com
 
Laura Arrubla Toro
press@thumbtack.com
