Southern Research is offering biotech companies an opportunity to move to a new incubator facility on its campus starting in January 2024. (Southern Research) Birmingham-area biotech startups could have space to grow early next year if they set up shop in Southern Research’s new incubator facility. Applications for the space, projected to open in January, are now being accepted. The incubator setup includes 11 offices and 12 wet labs, along with shared lab equipment and entrepreneurial services to support startup businesses engaged in treating and diagnosing diseases, the facility says. Williams Blackstock Architects and HOK designed the space, and Brasfield & Gorrie served as general contractor. “We conducted a feasibility study in 2022 that highlighted the gap between the needs of Birmingham’s growing biotech scene and the availability of services and wet lab space,” Abi Kulshreshtha, Chief Business Officer said. “By offering a biotech companies access to our space and our expertise, we can nurture their growth and further develop Birmingham’s biotech corridor.” The incubator space will be part of Southern Research’s Station 41 biotech commercialization hub, which also includes an accelerator and a venture studio to help launch and fund startup businesses. Firms engaged in treating and diagnosing diseases are the facility’s aim, with a preference for companies specializing in cancer, infectious diseases and chronic diseases - Southern Research’s core focus areas. Companies renting space in the incubator will be paired with experts at Southern Research, UAB and other local business leaders to help with technology needs. They will also receive access to Southern Research’s services and expertise, Kulshreshtha said. For more information, click here. You can also find an application for the incubator here.  If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices