
 Thursday, 13th July 2023 — By Róisín Gadelrab Guns ’N’ Roses at the BST Festival [Roisin Gadelrab] HOLLYWOOD actors bring their side hustles to London this month as Billy Bob Thornton & The Boxmasters bring their “modbilly” sound to The Garage on July 22 while Kiefer Sutherland performs tracks from his upcoming debut album Down In A Hole at Dingwalls on July 21. Support for The Boxmasters comes from Bubbles and the Shitrockers, while blues rock musician Sari Scharr supports Sutherland, who describes his new album as “the closest thing I’ve ever had to a journal or diary”. • It’s all over for another year – Hyde Park’s BST Festival came to a close on Sunday after three weekends of rock, boy bands, K-pop, dreamy songwriters, ticker tape, acrobatics and more. See what we thought of P!nk, Gwen Stefani, Guns’N’Roses and Take That, while our reviewers Paul Ham gives his verdict on Bruce Springsteen and Richard Osley observes Lana Del Rey’s mystical aura – all online at www.camdennewjournal.co.uk/category/review/rock-n-pop • More festivals to come including the Hot Chip-headlined Kaleidoscope Festival at Ally Pally featuring Gaz Coombes, George Fitzgerald, Elvana (Elvis-fronted Nirvana – how could you miss this?), Erol Alkan, Fabio & Grooverider, Wookie, plus comedy and much more music and entertainment on July 15. On the same day over in Camden, the one-day Higher Ground Festival celebrates an all-female line-up of singer-songwriters, exciting acts and DJ sets. Americana band The Stave, The Orielles, Tawaiah and Aoife Nessa Frances head up the live music with DJ sets from Tyson and Tina Edwards, all at the Roundhouse. • Jazz Café has scooped a DJ set from esteemed musician, producer, film-maker Questlove– did you see Summer of Soul? – his first London DJ set in over five years – only 400 tickets available #justsayin’ • Scottish rockers The Skids play Dingwalls on July 16 in support of new album Destination Dusseldorf. Fans take note, they signed off their publicity with the ominous message “grab a ticket, it will be the last time you see us for a long time!”. • Not quite ready to forget Eurovision 2023 yet? Relive some of the Eurovision vibes with Ireland’s entry Wild Youth and Slovenia’s oh so cute entry from this year Joker Out, who play a joint headlining set at Electric Ballroom on July 20. The gig was upgraded to the Ballroom due to demand so expect some competition for tickets. • Expect Islington Academy’s roof to be blown off when Wolfmother play there on July 26. • Four picks from The Forge: A night of dub sounds with the mighty Mad Professor (July 21); 90s Asian-reggae fusion artist Apache Indian – remember Boom Shack-A-Lack? (July 22); Jamaican ska/rock steady / reggae legends The Pioneers (July 25); and dancehall king Macka B (July 26). • More upcoming gigs: July 14 – Tom Browne, Jazz Café; Bastille, Alexandra Palace Park; The New Mastersounds, The Forge; July 15 – Demola the Violinist, 229; James Brandon Lewis & Unruly Manifesto, The Forge; Jack Botts, The Lexington; This Feeling presents Meet Arthur + Sasha Assad + The Malakites, The Water Rats; Camden Rocks All Dayer with Dogz or Godz + Bishopskin + Mangoseed + The Others Are Dead, Steve + Arkley + The Ringards + The Midnight Vortex + Kabuki + FOR A, Camden Assembly; July 16 – Lila Downs, Barbican; The Electric Swing Circus, The Forge; July 17-18 – Belle & Sebastian, Roundhouse; July 17-18 – Bobby Rush, The Forge; July 18 – King Princess, KOKO; Clowns, Camden Assembly; July 19 – Benjamin Oliver + Riot Ensemble present LOVE LETTERS (with AI), five song cycles exploring creative applications of artificial intelligence (AI) ft Hannah Williams and Stephanie Lamprea, Kings Place; Men I Trust, Roundhouse; The Heathen Apostles + Sarah Vista, The Lexington; Steve Soleman and Five Element, The Forge; July 20 – Gorgon City, Koko; Teddy Swims + Azure Ryder, Roundhouse; Ill Considered, The Forge; Suspect The Birds, Dingwalls; Blonde Redhead + Bibi Club, The Lexington; Calva Louise, Camden Assembly; July 21 – The Damn Truth, Islington Academy; Hozier, Alexandra Palace Park; Cortex, Jazz Café; The Damn Truth + The Cold Staes, Islington Academy; Radical Dance Faction + Screaming Dead + Wipes + DJ Fuzz, The Dublin Castle; The Fires Below + Half Cut Mind, The Fiddlers Elbow; July 22 – Freddie & The Scenarios (The Vaccines former lead guitarist), The Lexington; July 23 – Who Saves The Hero?, The Black Heart; July 25 – Claud, The Lower Third; Miura Ayme, Islington Academy; July 26 – Horace Andy ft Matic Horns & Dub Asante Band, Jazz Café; Babé Sila, Café KOKO; Atomic Rooster, The Forge; July 27 – Airbourne + Blues Pills, The Forum; July 28 – tmdistant, Canal Bar Dingwalls. Camden New Journal
Islington Tribune
West End Extra 40 Camden Road Camden Town London, NW1 9DR
 020 7419 9000 Enquiries:
editorial@camdennewjournal.com
advertising@camdennewjournal.com
