A former priest has pleaded guilty to an obscenity charge after he was caught having sex inside a church in Louisiana, with an archbishop describing his "desecration of the altar" as "demonic" A former priest has pleaded guilty to a charge of obscenity after he made a sex tape of him having "demonic" sex on an altar with a dominatrix duo.  Travis Clark, 39, made the confession as part of a plea bargain, according to his attorney.  He committed the act at his church in Pearl River, Louisiana, on October 1, 2020.  The offence came to light when a person passing by noticed the lights on in the church. A witness then told police they saw Clark and the two women carrying out sexual acts in front of a camera placed on top of a tripod. Prosecutors say Clark was seen stripped on the holy table with two women wearing high-heel boots and corsets.  Police seized camera and lighting equipment as well as sex toys. He was also alleged to have defecated on the carpet.  Clark received a suspended three-year prison sentence along with three years of supervised probation and he was also ordered to pay a fine of $1,000 (£870), reports NOLA.com.  After the 2020 offence came to light, Archbishop Gregory Aymond said the altar was desecrated and ordered it to be burned. Clark was also defrocked by the church. Aymond said: "His obscene behaviour was deplorable. His desecration of the altar in the church was demonic. "I am infuriated by his actions." At a courthouse in the city of Covington, Clark's defence attorney Michael Kennedy said $8,000 (£6,930) had already been paid to the Archdiocese of New Orleans. Kennedy said it was unfair that his client pleaded guilty to a crime as part of his bargain, while those on tape with him faced lesser charges of institutional vandalism. Earlier this year, one of Clark's representatives applied to split his case from the two women for fear they would put all the blame on him. Court documents said Clark intended to do the same to them. Melissa Cheng, 30, and Mindy Dixon, 43, pleaded guilty to the misdemeanour counts earlier this year. Cheng, known as 'Mistress Ming' and Dixon, known as 'Satanatrix' or 'Lady Vi,' avoided prison time with two years probation handed to them each instead. "I believe my client is far less likely to find himself in a similar situation ever again," Kennedy said. "Wherever life takes Mr Clark from here, I hope it finds him well and able to put this fully behind him." Clark, according to the Times-Picayune, is set to appear in a civil court in January to face a permanent injunction to stop him, Cheng and Dixon from profiting from what they did. Get email updates with the day's biggest stories