
			Policing minister Chris Philp said sports fans can act against the group’s actions which are ‘not legitimate’ and ‘completely unacceptable’
		 Wimbledon spectators can “reasonably” intervene to stop Just Stop Oil protesters disrupting matches, the policing minister has said. Chris Philp said it was “reasonable” for people to act against protestors if they were at an event disrupted by Just Stop Oil. He said the group’s direct action was “not legitimate” and “completely unacceptable.” “I think it’s reasonable for people to try and protect the event they’re watching. Obviously, nobody should do anything dangerous or hurt anyone,” he told Times Radio, although he went on to add that public should “let the stewards and marshals do their job.” His comments come after Just Stop Oil protesters breached security at Wimbledon on Wednesday and stormed court 18 twice on the third day of the competition to scatter orange ticker tape onto the grass. It follows a Number Ten summit on the protest tactics involving Mr Philp, Home Secretary Suella Braverman and sports chiefs after which Mrs Braverman backed police and stewards’ right to use force to remove Just Stop Oil protesters. Government sources said stewards could use force, as long as it was not excessive, in the same way England cricketer Johnny Bairstow picked up a Just Stop Oil protester and carried him off the field at Lords on the first day of the second Ashes test. Mr Philp said he and Mrs Braverman had also urged sports chiefs to increase their security resources to prevent protesters from disrupting high-profile events like Wimbledon. He said this should be allied to using new legal powers including “anti-disruption” injunctions which would see protesters who breached them facing up to six months in jail. “We’d like to see obviously those sporting organisations like Wimbledon increase the number of marshals and stewards. They have to be more careful about checking people coming into sporting events and react really quickly when something happens,” he said. He added that ministers “strongly encourage” the use of serious disruption prevention orders in which courts can impose restrictions on protesters’ movements and carry a maximum of six months in jail or unlimited fines. “At the meeting yesterday we had with sporting leaders we encouraged the use of injunctions because that allows for a much more severe criminal penalty if the injunction gets breached.” He said Just Stop Oil was making a deliberate attempt to disrupt the day-to-day lives of other citizens and added: “It is completely unacceptable. The vast majority of the public are appalled by this very, very small, very selfish minority.” A team of fast runners will be on duty for the third Ashes Test at Headingley on Thursday aimed at intercepting any protesters or disgruntled fans. Yorkshire County Cricket Club have substantially increased the manpower on duty for the England v Australia match starting on Thursday, after scenes involving Just Stop Oil protesters who ran onto the field on the first day at Lord’s last Wednesday.  This includes a team of “sprinter stewards” based on the boundary ready to tackle any invaders. Other specialist stewards will have the job of protecting the sightscreens in case anyone tries to chain themselves to one, and it is understood that police will have access to cutters to remove them if a protester does succeed. Police are also being urged to make full use of new powers, introduced last month, to treat repeat disruptive protests by groups like Just Stop Oil as a sustained campaign rather than standalone events so they can take immediate action against them without an initial warning. Officers will also be able to stop and search protesters for items like padlocks and superglue if they suspect they are setting out to cause chaos under the new legislation. This will enable officers to target protesters who, for example, used cable ties to attach themselves to goalposts. Sports chiefs at the Number Ten roundtable on Wednesday included tennis, cricket, racing, rugby, football, golf, Formula One, snooker, darts and greyhound racing.