By Michael Pavitt For Mailonline   Published:  06:46 EDT, 2 January 2023   |  Updated:  07:22 EDT, 2 January 2023      41 View  comments  Brighton have given World Cup winner Alexis Mac Allister a tickertape reception on his return to the club following his heroics with Argentina in Qatar. Mac Allister is back at Brighton after a fortnight off following his World Cup success, with the midfielder having spent time at home in Santa Rosa after enjoying the celebrations in Buenos Aires. The Premier League side posted a clip on social media with the caption 'Welcoming back our World Cup winner' to celebrate Mac Allister's arrival. Brighton have celebrated Alexis Mac Allister's return after winning the World Cup in Qatar The 24-year-old was seen walking into the club's training ground wearing his World Cup winner's medal. Mac Allister was applauded by members of club staff and hugged team-mates including captain Lewis Dunk, before being seen lifting a replica version of the World Cup trophy as blue and white tickertape, reflecting Argentina's colours, was released. An Argentine flag was also seen draped over a desk as photos celebrating Mac Allister's performances in the World Cup were shown on a screen. Fans have praised the club for the welcome given to Mac Allister, who became the first Brighton player to win the World Cup following Argentina's win over France on penalties in Qatar last month.  Welcoming back our World Cup winner! 🙏 pic.twitter.com/Bb2MoZmf2B Mac Allister played a vital role as Argentina won the World Cup in Qatar last month  'What a good welcome that is, well done whoever organised it,' one fan tweeted, with another adding 'Welcome back World champ! What a return!!' 'That is simply amazing, what a welcome home that is,' a third Brighton fan wrote. Several Twitter users joked about the use of tickertape, with one writing: 'Thoughts and prayers go out to the cleaners.' Mac Allister was supposed to return for the FA Cup third round visit to Middlesbrough on Saturday but arrived back at the club sooner, such is his eagerness to return to action. The midfielder may be involved when Brighton travel to Everton in the Premier League on Tuesday night if head coach Roberto De Zerbi deems him ready. The midfielder could make his club return when Brighton face Everton tomorrow Mac Allister came into Lionel Scaloni's Argentina side after they were shocked by Saudi Arabia in their opening group game. He started their remaining six matches en route to glory, scoring his first international goal in the win over Poland and establishing an excellent understanding with Lionel Messi. Mac Allister set up Angel Di Maria's goal in the final, which looked to have Argentina on course for victory in normal time before France fought back. Premier League sides such as Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester United, plus Juventus and Atletico Madrid, have all been linked with a player whose value skyrocketed in Qatar.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group