    Kitchener restaurant continuing Costa Rican family tradition Kitchener restaurant continuing Costa Rican family tradition Ivania Lopez, left, Mario Rodriguez, Christopher Guevara, Bryan Jimenez, Cesar Jimenez, Joshua Jimenez, Diego Avila, and Ricardo Jimenez, stand in front of el tico restaurant in Kitchener, Tuesday, August 22, 2023. KITCHENER — A Kitchener family is continuing the “El Tico” family tradition with a new restaurant in Kitchener. In 1953, Bernardo Jimenez moved from Costa Rica to Jinotega, Nicaragua, where he met the love of his life, marrying Irene Chavarria de Jimenez. On May 27, 1954, Bernardo opened a restaurant called “El Tico,” with Irene by his side. “That date means everything to me,” said Ricardo Jimenez, the couple’s grandson who lives in Kitchener. “That is the start of where all of our passion for food began.” As a Costa Rican in a small Nicaraguan town, Bernardo quickly got the nickname “El Tico” from locals, a term used for Costa Ricans. From the couple’s six children, one being Ricardo’s father, several “El Tico” restaurants were opened up in both Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Ricardo’s aunt continues to run El Tico in Nicaragua, which has now transformed into a hotel-restaurant. It is family history Ricardo looks back on with reverence. “My father passed away when I was in high school and that generation have passed now,” said Ricardo. “We trying to continue the tradition here.” Ricardo’s family moved to Kitchener in 1993. “El Tico” was a way for Ricardo’s grandparents to bring Costa Rican food into the small Nicaraguan city of Jinotega. With his family, and long-time friend Diego Avila, Ricardo plans to do the same in Kitchener by bringing cultural food to the Forest Heights neighbourhood. In September, Ricardo and his family will open an “El Tico” restaurant to Kitchener’s Forest Heights neighbourhood. Avila, to be the restaurant’s chef, has known the Jimenez family for over 25 years. “I always used to go to their house and cook,” said Avila. “I was always on the barbeque making something for my friends.” This includes shrimps and steaks. Living in the same neighbourhood, Avila grew up good friends with the three Jimenez brothers. The friends used food to bond with each other, often talking about opening a restaurant someday in the future. “It was a dream, but now it’s a reality,” said Avila. Food and cooking continued to blossom in their friendship over the years. In 2022, the friends left without the award from Tacofest, an annual taco-making competition held at Kitchener’s Ken Seiling Museum. In June 2023, the group competed together again. This year, they brought home the award. “We went to the drawing board and we were just more organized,” Ricardo said about winning this year. To be part of the new restaurant feels like a dream to Avila. “It’s not an easy process opening a restaurant,” said Ricardo. But he said he is happy to be doing it beside his family. “Family’s forever, so having them have your back, it makes things easier.” The restaurant at 450 Westheights Dr., is set to open sometime in late September.  is a Waterloo-based general assignment reporter. To join the conversation set a first and last name in your user profile. Sign in or register for free to join the Conversation 
Error! There was an error processing your request.
         
           There was a problem with the recaptcha. Please try again.
         
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         
                                 Want more of the latest from us? Sign up for more at our newsletter page.
                             
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: © Copyright 2024 Metroland Media Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved
8 Spadina Avenue, Suite 10A, Toronto, ON M5V 0S8       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.    
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.