To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. This article originally appeared on Vogue Business. To receive the Vogue Business newsletter, sign up here. Louise Trotter is stepping down as creative director of Lacoste to pursue other opportunities. The French heritage sportswear brand said it has no plans to replace her, and will instead shift to a collective model for its design — making it the latest in a line of brands to move away from relying on a single creative lead. “I wish to thank Louise for her creativity and commitment, and for her contribution to the brand's legacy,” Lacoste president Thierry Guibert said in a statement. “Lacoste is now embarking on a new chapter, with a collective of designers committed to working alongside Lacoste to share talents and connections. Beyond the design of collections, our brand wants to go further in its mission to connect cultures and communities.” Trotter was named creative director in October 2018, succeeding Felipe Oliveira Baptista. The British designer joined Lacoste from Joseph, and previously worked at premium high street brands Whistles and Jigsaw. At Lacoste, she applied her creative vision to both Lacoste’s fashion shows and general collections, bringing “real consistency” across its designs, according to the brand. “She has also accompanied the shift initiated by Lacoste towards womenswear, imagining a new wardrobe combining comfort and style,” the statement reads. Lacoste’s last fashion show was in October 2021 for Spring/Summer 2022, for which Trotter drew inspiration from her passion for cycling. Sales reached €2.5 billion in 2022, according to the brand. Brands have been experimenting with a move away from relying on a sole creative director in recent years. Moncler, Jean Paul Gaultier and AZ Factory have embraced the rotating designer model. In 2020, Alexander McQueen switched to a creative collective model for its secondary line McQ. Acne Studios and GmbH started out as collectives. Maison Margiela was relying on a design team before John Galliano stepped in 2014. Lacoste’s plan “to connect cultures and communities” also resonates with the late Virgil Abloh’s focus on collaborating and networking. However, results of the collective or rotating model have been mixed; while it can keep the design direction fresh, there is a risk of inconsistency and that the concept could run out of steam(the McQ line was suspended last year). Trotter’s next steps are not yet known. “I am very happy to have joined this unique brand that perfectly combines heritage and avant-gardism,” she said in the release. “I depart with the deepest gratitude to my creative team, and I hope they will continue to flourish.” Comments, questions or feedback? Email us at feedback@voguebusiness.com. More from this author: Investor David Wertheimer on funding the new era of luxury Why Jacquemus staged a show in December Behind the scenes of Pucci’s experiential playground in St Moritz More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty