Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. 

By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email.Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Your support helps TechNode continue to provide credible, on-the-ground journalism and industry insights about the Chinese tech industry. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 TechNode 
					Latest news and trends about tech in China				 TikTok’s sibilng company Douyin has undergone a significant organizational restructuring in its lifestyle services business, according to Chinese news media LatePost. The company has elevated its hotel and travel business division to a first-level department under its lifestyle services business, on par with its in-store services. Li Wei, the sales manager of Douyin’s lifestyle services, is now directly responsible for the performance of its in-store catering business, while the former head of in-store catering has been transferred to the e-commerce business group. Additionally, Douyin’s on-demand delivery service has expanded its business scope to include a new flash purchase service that uses the delivery system originally designed for supermarket merchants on Douyin. The new flash purchase business is led by Wang Xiao, the former head of Douyin’s real estate agency services, reporting to Wei Wenwen, the head of Douyin e-commerce. In 2023, with the end of China’s pandemic quarantine policies and Meituan’s continued dominance of the sector, Douyin’s lifestyle services growth slowed down. Currently, Douyin’s in-store and hotel and travel businesses account for around 40% of Meituan’s transaction volume, down from 45% six months ago, according to LatePost. [LatePost, in Chinese] 沪ICP备14046707号-4 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy.																	
