They all got home in time to take their kids to school the next day - a little bit tired Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters A group of mums spent just £102 on an 18-hour spa trip to Milan – and were home in time for the school run. Laura Oduntan, 37, and her pals - Jade Bassett, 33, Remi Pedro, 37, and Agnes Adekunle, 38 - decided to upgrade their regular Nando’s meet-up and treat themselves to a spa day.  Laura, a mum of two girls – aged three and six – had spotted the QC Terme spa in Milan, Italy, on TikTok and suggested it to her marketing friends. After checking with their partners, the mums flew via Easyjet from Gatwick Airport, in Crawley, West Sussex, at 6.20am on £62 return flights and landed at Milan Malpensa Airport by 9am.  The four women took the train into Milan for lunch, before relaxing in the spa for three hours. They finished up with dinner and Aperols at a rooftop restaurant before getting back to the airport for their flight at 10pm.  Laura got home by midnight and was up the next morning to take her daughter to school. Laura, a social media manager and owner of the 5am mama, from Bromley, Greater London, said: “I thought let’s upgrade our Nando’s trip.  “It was a long tiring day. But there was so much laughter and fun.  “The spa was just lovely. I still had to get up for the school run the next day.”  The mums all met while working for Direct Line group seven years ago and have been having regular catch-ups over a Nando’s ever since. Laura said: “We all had babies around the same time.  “We were on maternity leave together. That’s how we became a group of friends.”  Laura saw a video of a spa in Milan on her TikTok and suggested the idea to Jade, who has a three-year-old, Remi, who is mum to two-year-old girl, and Agnes, who has three children – two, six and eight. It seemed like the perfect getaway for the busy mums and was cheap compared to the £200 cost of Champneys spa - costing just £40 each.  Laura said: “When you’re a mum you don’t like the sound of leaving your baby overnight. But it’s nice to do something as a group of friends.  “We booked the flights in May. We made sure our partners were on hand.”  The friends arrived at Gatwick Airport for 3am and flew out at 6.20am. They took a train into Milan city centre for €13 and found a café close to the spa for lunch - spending around €15 each on food.  Laura said: “We found a nice little café and had salads.” The friends headed over to the spa at 12.30pm and stayed until 3pm relaxing in the different rooms and pools.  Laura said: “There was a lot to do. There were different immersive rooms.  “You laid on a bed and it rained on you. There were nice smelling sauna rooms.” The mums walked to the Duomo di Milano before going for an early dinner at 4.30pm.  They had pizzas and an Aperol spritz for €20 each at a rooftop restaurant. Laura said: “When in Italy.”  After eating, the pals headed back to the airport for their 10pm flight – arriving back in the UK by midnight. Laura said: “I snuck in.  “I didn’t feel different to normal the next day. I’m up all night normally. I’m a tired mum.”  The friends enjoyed their day trip so much they hope to make it an annual occasion – trying out different cities for a day. Laura said: “We said we would make it on an annual thing and try and go to different cities. “See different cities but go for a day. Agnes had the revelation that she’d never been to Paris.”  Laura hopes it inspires other mums to take a day for themselves. She said: “When a lot of mums meet up you have the kids with you.  “We should take that moment for ourselves. You’re not just a mum. You’re a person. Look after yourself as well as the kids.”  The mum’s spa day trip -  3am - arrive at the airport  6.20am - flight to Milan, Italy  9am - arrive in Milan and get the train to the city centre  11.30am - lunch at a local café  12.30pm - arrive at the QC Terme spa  3pm - leave the spa and walk to Duomo di Milano  4.30pm - early dinner at a rooftop restaurant  8pm - arrive back at the airport  10pm - flight back to Gatwick, London 