ENHYPEN will be heading out on their second U.S. tour in the U.S. beginning on Oct. 6 in California.YouTube ENHYPEN are ready to embark on their second world tour. The K-pop group will head out on their “FATE” tour in the U.S. beginning Oct. 6 in Los Angeles and wrapping up Oct. 22 in Chicago. While on tour, the group will play two New Jersey concerts at Prudential Center in Newark on Oct. 18 and Oct. 19. Tickets go on sale on Ticketmaster on July 19 at 3 p.m, but K-pop fans can already find tickets on the secondary market, including StubHub, Vivid Seats and TicketCity. First-time Vivid Seats users can save $20 on ticket orders over $200 by entering promo code NJ20 at checkout. A complete list of ENHYPEN’s tour dates is available here. More massive K-pop tours in 2023 ENHYPEN is not the only K-pop group heading out on tour this year. Here are a few more upcoming tours and events you won’t want to miss. RELATED STORIES ABOUT LIVE EVENTS: Matt Rife world tour 2023: How to buy tickets to sold-out comedy shows Taylor Swift tour 2023: Full schedule, dates, where to buy tickets The biggest K-pop tours and festivals in 2023: Dates, tickets, venues Billy Joel ends 10-year MSG residency in 2024: How to secure tickets Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Nicole Iuzzolino can be reached at niuzzolino@njadvancemedia.com. Have a tip? Tell us at nj.com/tips. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices