  Larry Morrow opened Sun Chong in the French Quarter. Sun Chong is the latest restaurant from Larry Morrow, who plans to have six places open by the end of this year, with more to come in 2024. “I want us to be one of the largest Black-owned hospitality groups in the South,” says the 32-year-old entrepreneur. He remembers the moment when the possibility of realizing big dreams became real to him. What Sun Chong Where 240 Decatur St., (504) 355-0022; sunchongnola.com When Lunch Fri.-Mon., dinner Wed.-Mon. How Dine in Check it out A new Korean- and Asian-inspired French Quarter restaurant “I was 20, my first time in L.A.,” he says. “I got invited to a party at P. Diddy’s house, high in the Hollywood Hills. I felt on top of the world — being from a city that’s below sea level, I’d never seen anything like it. Sometimes you can’t know what’s possible until you see it for yourself. That changed my life.” Mingling with celebrities, models and sports stars is Morrow’s bread and butter, fueling both his events business and the burgeoning restaurant group he heads. “They feed each other, the parties and the restaurants,” he says. Morrow says his business savvy comes from the grind and from surrounding himself with the right people. “My mom’s an entrepreneur,” he says. “My grandmother’s an entrepreneur. I have strong women in my life, and that’s made me strong, too.” Sun Chong, in the French Quarter at 240 Decatur St., is named for his 69-year-old maternal grandmother, who’s usually in the house working closely with chef Christian Green. Many of her Korean recipes are used at the restaurant. “I’m here every day, until they are used to the recipes,” she says. Chong came to the United States when she was 23 and Morrow’s mother, Lenore, was 3. “I didn’t even know how to cook then,” she says. “I taught myself.” Her daughter became a chef and now heads the company’s culinary program, which includes their first restaurant, Morrow’s, which opened in 2018 in the Marigny. They added Monday in Mid-City in 2022. The Morrow Group is gearing up to open a fourth restaurant this summer, Morrow’s Steak and Seafood, at 1001 Julia St. And later in the summer, Morrow plans to open a Caribbean-style restaurant and lounge at 405 Frenchmen St., the patio space that was most recently The Yard. He sees no end in sight for potential projects. Morrow grew up eating a mix of New Orleans and Korean food. “My mom was a chef, so we ate well,” he says. “Every holiday, every party, she’d cook for me and my friends.” He calls the new restaurant’s food Korean-inspired, and there is a mix of other Asian-influenced dishes, like fried rice with crawfish or vegetables, dumplings stuffed with kimchee and pork, teriyaki-glazed salmon and spicy Korean-style marinated and fried chicken. The fried ribs are a crowd pleaser, presented underneath a smoke-filled glass dome. The Fish in a Boat is another head turner with chunks of fried red snapper surrounded by the fried whole fish. Under the menu’s handheld section are a bulgogi rib-eye po-boy, a fried crawfish po-boy and a “baco,” an Asian bun stuffed with spicy pork, teriyaki beef or fried shrimp on French bread. Macy Ezidore is behind the Instagram-ready $17 cocktails, like the I Love You, a layered blend of gin, lychee soju and peach puree served in a heart-shaped martini glass and topped with a hibiscus flower. The restaurant’s modern design is from Matthew Holdren, who also designed Morrow’s. Black walls are painted with scattered hot pink hibiscus flowers, and a golden dragon snakes around one column, both created by local artist Ann Marie Auricchio. A back-lit bar and sunflower leather seating rounds out the eye-popping setting. “I want it to be an experience, a vibe, to dine at one of our restaurants,” Morrow says. “New Orleans is a very traditional city. When I travel to places like Miami, L.A., New York, there’s a different energy that I want to bring here.” He says his customers are 60% tourists, the rest locals who have supported Morrow’s. “This is a tough business,” Morrow says. “Some people think I’m crazy. But I was raised to show hospitality. Food is universal, a language we all speak.” Keep up with the latest at calendar.gambitweekly.com. Keep up with the latest at calendar.gambitweekly.com. 
        For more than 40 years, Gambit has covered New Orleans, for New Orleans.
        We’ve stood up to city hall with you, cheered the Saints with you,
        danced in the streets with you and cried over our collective loss with
        you. And we’re plannin’ on being here for 40 more. To do that, we need
        your help. Become a Gambit member today and help us continue our mission
       Email Gambit's food and drink team at dining@gambitweekly.com Larry Morrow wants to redefine what a New Orleans steakhouse looks like. Larry Morrow wants to redefine what a New Orleans steakhouse looks like.   Gambit's Events Calendar
 For more upcoming events visit  
calendar.gambitweekly.com 
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: