Behind stout defense and timely offense, the Martha's Vineyard boys lacrosse team defeated Monomoy on the road, 5-3, on Thursday. The win snapped a three-game losing streak for the Vineyarders (4-3), after they opened the season with a three-game winning streak to start the season. Martha's Vineyard's junior Aiden Conley had a hat trick in the win, and sophomore Will Baliunas added the other two, while the Vineyarders defense held the high-powered Sharks offense in check. Here's what stood out: Throughout the game, Martha's Vineyard head coach Chris Greene was heard teaching his players both on the sideline and while they were on the field. More: Resurgent Rams or surging Sandwich? Who tops our first Cape Cod H.S. baseball rankings His messages weren't about plays or formations, rather simple details about his team's fundamentals, and there's a reason for that. The Vineyarders are a relatively young team with some of the players that see heavy playing time still learning the sport on the fly. With that in mind, Greene understands that the fundamentals has to be where the emphasis lies. "We have a lot of young kids as far as the sport goes," Greene said. "So a lot of our mistakes are just fundamental IQ things that they don't have (because of) a lack of experience," Whether it was reminders of keeping two hands on the stick in traffic, eliminating unnecessary stick movement prior to shooting, or being conscious of which way to run when advancing up the field, Greene believes that those little details hold the key to his team's success. He feels like his team is trending in the right direction offensively. More: Making an NFL Mock Draft using only Cape Cod high school football players "I feel really good about the progression that we're making offensively," Greene said. "We had a lot of nice looks inside early on. That was good offense." Conley agrees, and says he feels like the offense is getting stronger game-by-game. "I feel like our offense has definitely developed a lot since the beginning of the season," Conley said. The Sharks came in having scored 80 goals in just six games this season, and sophomore Tamer Khalil has established himself as one of the premier goal scorers on Cape this season. The Vineyarders proceeded to hold the Sharks to three goals, only one of which came at even strength, in the win. More: HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Falmouth Academy girls lacrosse gets first varsity win in four years Anchoring that defense was sophomore goalie Mike Perry. Perry made 15 saves in the win, slowing any Monomoy momentum and never allowing the Sharks to tie the game. "He was seeing the ball really well early, and it gave him confidence," said Greene. Beyond Perry, Greene highlighted his defensive starters, sophomores Chase Toomey, Jourdan Souza, and Frankie Paciello, and senior Alex Walsh as to why the Vineyarders defense has been so strong to begin the 2023 season. "I think it's just been a good core of our four long poles being solid, (and) being seasoned," said Greene. Through seven games, the Vineyarders have only allowed a total of 46 goals, which is third fewest in the area. In addition to those sophomores holding it down, Greene said Walsh has emerged in his senior season. "(He) has just kind of blossomed out of no where," Greene added. "We weren't expecting him to be where he's at." More: 'Electric' freshman scores walk-off run as Falmouth baseball nets rare win over Barnstable Led by those four, the Vineyarders pitched a shutout in the fourth quarter and also killed a two-man down situation early in the game. "If we continue to get better at concentration and communication defensively, we will continue to be successful," Greene said. Monomoy coach John Kent said after the game that games like this one highlight the areas that a team needs to work on, and recognizes the value in that. "It's always good to play against a good team, it helps you gauge where you are and where you need to be, and that's the lesson from today." Kent said. He felt one of the biggest lessons learned in the loss, is that his team needs to be more patient. Two of the three goals in the loss came with a man advantage, and Kent said he like the way his team operated in those situations. "They moved the ball, they moved without the ball, and they didn't force it. They were patient," Kent said. Kent wants to see that patience translate to even strength. He felt there were moments where his team played a little out of control and believes finding that balance will key going forward. "We need to have a little more patience in our even strength," he said. "(We had) fast breaks a few times where we forced it when we just needed to take a step back and do what we were doing with the man up." The loss drops the Sharks to 5-2 this season. This article originally appeared on Cape Cod Times: Martha's Vineyard boys lacrosse defeats Monomoy Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin.