 Arsenal suffered a 2-0 loss to Manchester United in the second game of their pre-season tour of the USA. First-half goals from Bruno Fernandes and Jadon Sancho sealed a win for Erik ten Hag's side at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey. Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta named a strong starting XI, handing first starts for new signings Declan Rice, Kai Havertz and Jurrien Timber. The Gunners had the better of the early stages but were unable to make that pressure count. Fernandes opened the scoring when his left-footed shot got through Aaron Ramsdale. Sancho doubled his side's lead with a fine finish after being fed through on goal. Arteta will not have been best pleased with what he saw from his side. Express Sport takes a look at a couple of talking points from the match.    Read more...    Chelsea Mbappe bid 'expected' by PSG as French giants ready to sell for £87m    Takehiro Tomiyasu is somewhat of a forgotten man in Arteta's squad. The Japan star missed the back end of last season due to injury. He had already lost his starting spot at right-back to Ben White due to fitness issues at the beginning of the campaign. But the absence of Oleksandr Zinchenko through injury has now given him the chance in pre-season over in the States. Tomiyasu started at left-back against United. He had a strong start to the match despite being naturally right-footed. He was largely able to keep Antony at bay and looked sharp with some neat touches in United's half. It was his first start in pre-season so he naturally tired towards the end of the first half. But he showed a glimpse of why Arsenal fans fell in love with him in his first season at the club. If he can stay fit, he will provide a solid versatile option for Arteta.  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy   Don't miss...     Chelsea 'close to agreement' with Kudus as Pochettino ruins Arsenal plans  [RUMOUR]     Man Utd 'on verge of record transfer' as two deals with Man City close  [GOSSIP]     Man Utd set to sell an eighth and ninth star promoted by Ole Gunnar Solskjaer  [TRANSFERS]  Arsenal’s new kit for 2023/2024 is a stylish twist on a classic as it reinvents that mid-1990s vibe. A truly modern-looking shirt with a homage to the past, the Nike kit also includes a nod to the club’s iconic Invincible’s side in the finer details while catching the eye with the lightning bolt motif They say it's best to get your mistakes out of the way in pre-season. It is obviously preferred not to make them at all and both Aaron Ramsdale and Gabriel won't be pleased with their roles in United's opening two goals. Ramsdale should have done better with Bruno Fernandes' long-range strike. The Portugal international unleashed a powerful effort with his weaker left foot but the goalkeeper got a good enough hand to it to have been able to push the ball away. Gabriel's error was even more glaring. He completely missed a hopeful long ball on the halfway line and Sancho took advantage. Gabriel was unable to recover from his air shot as Sancho sped through on goal. Ramsdale couldn't do anything on this occasion to stop a fierce effort. Gabriel Martinelli had earlier missed a glaring double chance when the game was goalless. Somehow the Brazilian saw both his efforts saved by Tom Heaton from close range and he struggled to have much of an impact on the game apart from that. Eddie Nketiah also flattered to deceive at times after starting as the central striker. He was shifted out wide when Gabriel Jesus came on, which didn't help his cause.  SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?