With a healthy precipitation outlook through mid-May, local farmers and producers may still hold onto hope for a prosperous crop this year. As the region heads into planting season for several crops, the National Weather Service office in Lubbock shows possible thunderstorms in the forecast early next week, while the NWS Climate Prediction Center shows continued chances for moisture — with a 40 to 50% probability for above-normal chances of precipitation — across the High Plains through mid-May. Historically, May is the wettest month of the year on the High Plains region with a 10-year average of about 3.95 inches in Lubbock and 3.08 inches in Amarillo. The most recent U.S. Drought Monitor map, published on May 4, shows much of the High Plains under extreme and exceptional drought — the two most severe levels of five on the monitor. The map was based on data and conditions from earlier in the week - before rounds of thunderstorms brought widespread rainfall to much of the South Plains and Panhandle late Tuesday and Wednesday. As El Niño conditions emerge, with a 62% chance of developing in the summer, senior forecaster Robert Barritt of NWS Lubbock said there are few implications of its impact until winter. "Typically, the response that we see from El Niño and La Niña is more for wintertime precipitation," Barritt said. "So, there's really no direct relationship or correlation to the spring's or early summer's precipitation chances — especially since it's just now transitioning." So far this year, Lubbock has received 1.45 inches of precipitation, while Amarillo has received 2.65 inches of precipitation, approximately half of which has accumulated from storms over the last two weeks. This article originally appeared on Lubbock Avalanche-Journal: Timely rain in forecast for planting season on Texas plains New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.