Calvin submitted his Tinder profile for review by an expert as part of Insider's Dating App Clinic. Matchmaker Devyn Simone suggested Calvin replace photos where he's holding wine bottles and wearing sunglasses. It's also worth mentioning your deal breakers in your written bio, Simone said. Calvin, a 27-year-old using Tinder to date, submitted his profile for Insider's Dating App Clinic, a series where we ask experts how to revamp your dating profiles to increase your chances of finding a match. Calvin said he's looking to date women. He's seeking someone who is adventurous, relaxed, and confident. He said his deal breakers are someone seeking a non-monogamous relationship, and someone who has no passions, or doesn't give others the benefit of the doubt. "I care a lot about my work, I'm passionate and serious about beverages and food, and I'm aggressively adventurous in seeking out new experiences," Calvin told Insider. He said his ultimate goal is a long-term partnership. "I want to find someone to see the world with, and someone who will have my back while I have theirs," Calvin said. He said he thinks he illustrates his positive qualities well in his profile, but wonders if he's being too genuine at times. Devyn Simone, a matchmaker and Tinder's resident relationship expert, told Insider how Calvin could update his dating profile to increase his chances of finding a match. Simone said Calvin is off to a good start, but his photo selection could be more varied. According to Simone, a dating app profile should include photos that tell a story about who that person is, including their interests and personality. While Calvin's written bio and his Dating App Clinic submission make it clear that he's got a great sense of self, that message falls flat with his photos, Simone said. She suggested Calvin focus on taking some new photographs, focusing on bright lighting and a variety of settings to boost visual interest. Simone enjoyed how Calvin was honest and direct in his written profile. "I love how strong the first sentence is. It's clear what he's looking for. It also shows that he's put some thought into his ideal partner," Simone said. Since Calvin didn't call out any of his deal breakers in his profile, Simone suggested he tack on a line that read something like, "I appreciate someone with a passion for something. What's something unique that you're into?" This can also be a way to spark conversation with a potential match, Simone said. She also liked how Calvin called out his interests without rambling on about them, though she would replace the word "weird," she told Insider. "While it's clear that he means it to be playful, coming from a stranger, that word could potentially signal a lot of different things," Simone said. She'd replace it with something like: "I'm really into the work that I do. I also dig new experiences, unique art, unique wine, and unique movies." Simone said Calvin should consider making this well-lit shot the first photo in his profile. "It's brighter than the others, which feels more inviting. And it shows him doing something he enjoys, while alluding to his work," Simone said. Simone liked how this photo offers a taste of Calvin's humor and personality. Simone said she gets a quirky vibe from Calvin here. She recommended he keep this shot so potential matches see that side of him while swiping. Simone said Calvin should replace this photo with one that doesn't feature a wine bottle. According to Simone, Calvin's photo choices feel a bit repetitive because they feature similar elements like wine bottles and an apron. Calvin also has three photos that show him in sunglasses, which further makes his profile appear too uniform. She said that it's important to use photos to show your passions and interests while creating enough visual variety to keep potential matches engaged. Simone said that Calvin should replace this photo with one that shows that he's more than the work he does. A shot that shows Calvin doing a hobby he mentioned in his written bio would round out his profile well, she said. And if Calvin is worried that eliminating this or other photos will downplay his passion for his job, Simone suggested writing about that in his written bio. Calvin should also replace this photo with a full-body one, Simone said. Generally, dating experts recommend avoiding sunglasses, hats, and other accessories that obscure your eyes from potential matches, Insider previously reported. Simone said she thinks it's OK for Calvin to include his sunglasses in one photo, so long as he updates his other photos to offer a complete idea of what he looks like and has to offer. "It's important that potential matches can see you, and that includes seeing your eyes," Simone said. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag.