A man asked the internet why so many women on dating apps include their Instagram handle in their bio. The man took to Reddit’s “Dating Advice” forum to ask whether he should be messaging these women on Instagram — and why women were including their Instagram handle in their dating app profiles in the first place. (While he was asking specifically about women, it’s not only women who do this.) “Women on Tinder, when your Insta is in your bio, do you want guys to just message straight up even if we haven’t matched?” the author asks. “[It] feels a bit weird to me to just DM a girl out the blue because you saw her Insta on her Tinder bio before you even matched.” He goes on to ask why women would include their Instagram handle if they only want messages from matches, since everyone, including non-matches, can see that information. “If you only wanted guys you matched with to message, why put [your handle] in your bio in the first place?” he asks. “My assumption is that girls do it because they don’t use Tinder that often, but I don’t know.” Readers overwhelmingly responded that they believe people who include their social handles on dating apps are simply looking to increase their followers. “I think most people that do that just want more followers on Instagram,” one Redditor wrote. Other readers wrote that they are hesitant to message people on Instagram because they assume they’ll be ignored. “I figure they won’t appreciate random messages from me so I just ignore it,” one Redditor wrote. Still other Redditors wrote that they included their handles to prove they’re not “catfishing.” “I have linked my IG before just to show pictures that I’m not catfishing anyone and my hobbies lol,” one Redditor wrote. “I also had it linked but it was so they had access to a few more pics and were able to get better insight on me,” another Redditor explained. In The Know by Yahoo is now available on Apple News — follow us here! The post Man wonders why some women post this detail in their online dating bios appeared first on In The Know. More from In The Know: Woman allegedly catches boyfriend cheating thanks to prescient TikTok filter Amazon shoppers are kind of obsessed with these lightsaber chopsticks — yes, they really light up Woman calls out guy for 'ghosting' — and gets a response Shein slammed for how it advertises plus-size tights: 'So disrespectful' New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.