Processing.... The U.S. Air Force has selected Computer World Services to provide support for the 690th Cyberspace Operations Group as it works to ensure the availability of the Air Force Information Network. The Virginia-based IT services provider will carry out work under the $213 million Integrated Air Force Network Operations and Services 2 contract at multiple Air and Space Force facilities with an expected completion date of March 26, 2031, the Department of Defense said. The solicitation for IAFNOS-2 was issued in September 2021. The government received 22 proposals for the requirement. The contracting activity is the Acquisition Management Integration Center at Tinker Air Force Base. When Jen Sovada realized she could make more of an impact on the outside of the military looking in, she retired from the U.S. Air Force. Now, her company, the fast-growing startup SandboxAQ, regularly does business with the USAF and Sovada still gets to support the mission, circumnavigating the oft-labyrinthine bureaucracy of the government. Sovada 5G is becoming increasingly critical to defense missions at home and abroad, and the technology is evolving more rapidly than ever before. The Potomac Officers Club’s 2024 5G Forum on May 22 takes a deep dive into the U.S. government’s top 5G priorities, opportunities, challenges and initiatives as advancements in this vital technology area continue to By Payam Pourkhomami, President & CEO of OSIbeyond Those familiar with the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, especially its updated 2.0 version, know that its most significant shift from earlier Department of Defense cybersecurity efforts lies in the introduction of a tiered certification process. Unlike past standards, such as NIST SP 800-171, CMMC 2.0 mandates both The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here