Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. The technology sector is vast, comprising gadget makers, software developers, wireless providers, streaming services, semiconductor companies, and cloud computing providers, to name just a few. Any company that sells a product or service heavily infused with technology likely belongs to the tech sector. These design and build devices such as: These design the software that runs on hardware, such as: Software companies are increasingly moving to a software-as-a-service model where customers buy a subscription to a program instead of a one-time license. The arrangement generates recurring revenue for the software company. Semiconductor chips largely power the hardware. Semiconductor companies design and/or manufacture central processing units, graphics processing units, memory chips, and a wide variety of other chips that help to run today's devices. Telecom companies that provide wireless services support the tech sector, but actually belong to the communications sector; so do the video streaming companies that provide easy access to high-quality content, and the cloud computing providers that power those streaming services. Many of the most valuable companies in the world are technology companies. Here are three of the most dominant and largest tech stocks that investors should consider: Microsoft (MSFT  0.03%) is a dominant software company known for its Windows PC operating system and Office productivity software. Microsoft is also the second-largest provider of cloud infrastructure. Apple (AAPL  -0.94%) makes the iPhone, iPad, and Mac computers. Intense customer loyalty ensures plenty of repeat customers, and a growing array of services makes Apple's ecosystem sticky. Nvidia (NVDA  2.42%) is the premier manufacturer of semiconductors and advanced graphics processing units (GPUs) critical for not only gaming, but also for AI applications. Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL), Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN), and Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) are not technically tech stocks, despite often being lumped in with them.These stocks actually belong to the communications (Meta and Alphabet) and consumer discretionary sectors (Amazon), despite their tech-heavy products and services. Technology stocks, as represented by the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK  0.56%), which tracks S&P 500 technology stocks, have strongly outperformed throughout 2024. The current market conditions have favored high-beta assets like tech stocks, which have enjoyed magnified returns in a generally bullish market environment. Most indexes are up, and technology stocks are increasingly sitting in the top holdings of the S&P 500 and Nasdaq-100. Several macroeconomic factors have contributed to this strong performance. Inflation is cooling, which may signal the Federal Reserve Board to cut interest rates in the near future. This trend has already been observed with central banks in Canada and the European Union initiating rate cuts. Lower interest rates typically benefit growth stocks, including technology companies, as borrowing costs decrease and future earnings become more valuable. Another significant trend driving tech stocks is the continued focus on artificial intelligence (AI). Multiple companies have committed to accelerating their AI spend or are in the process of commercializing more AI products. Here are a few highlights: We explore the potential for seven top robotics-related stocks. Learn how you can make money from the wave of seasoned companies innovating in AI and new AI tech companies. An in-depth look at up-and-coming company stocks in the U.S. stock market this year. Here's what you need to know. You invest to get a return. So what makes a good ROI? For mature tech companies that produce profits, the price-to-earnings ratio is a useful metric. Divide stock price by per-share earnings, and you get a multiple that tells you how highly the market values the company's current earnings. The higher the multiple, the more value the market is placing on future earnings growth. Many tech companies aren't profitable, so the price-to-earnings ratio can't evaluate them. Revenue growth matters more for younger companies. If you're investing in something unproven, you want to make sure it has solid growth prospects. For unprofitable tech companies, it's also important that the bottom line be moving from losses toward profits. As a company grows, it should become more efficient, especially when it comes to the sales and marketing spending necessary to close deals. If it's not, or if spending is growing as a percentage of revenue, that could indicate something is wrong. Ultimately, a good tech stock is one that trades at a reasonable valuation, given its growth prospects. Accurately figuring out those growth prospects is the hard part. If you expect earnings to skyrocket in the coming years, paying a premium for the stock can make sense. But if you're wrong about those growth prospects, your investment may not work out. Investing in an exchange-traded fund (ETF) that focuses on tech stocks is one way to avoid making mistakes. The iShares Expanded Tech Sector ETF (IGM  0.35%) is a comprehensive option at a 0.41% expense ratio. Investing in tech stocks can be risky, but you can reduce your risk by investing only when you feel confident their growth prospects justify their valuations. Tony Dong has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple, Microsoft, and Nvidia. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2026 $395 calls on Microsoft and short January 2026 $405 calls on Microsoft. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Why do we invest this way?
Learn More
 Market-beating stocks from our award-winning analyst team. Calculated by average return of all stock recommendations since inception of the Stock Advisor service in February of 2002. Returns as of 08/19/2024. Discounted offers are only available to new members. Stock Advisor list price is $199 per year. Calculated by Time-Weighted Return since 2002. Volatility profiles based on trailing-three-year calculations of the standard deviation of service investment returns. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.