Thunderstorms this evening followed by occasional showers overnight. A few storms may be severe early. Low 71F. Winds NNE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 100%..
                                 Thunderstorms this evening followed by occasional showers overnight. A few storms may be severe early. Low 71F. Winds NNE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 100%.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 4:18 pm Hendrix College has named Tyler Gum, a Conway native, as the inaugural director of development for athletics. Gum will officially begin his role on Monday.  God guards you from every evil, he guards your very life. He guards you when you leave and when you return, he guards you now, he guards you always.  — Psalm 121: 7-8 (msg)   “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” is written and directed by Destin Daniel Cretton (writer and director of “Short Term 12” and “Just Mercy”) with writing help by Andrew Lanham (writer of “Just Mercy”) and Dave Callaham (writer of “Wonder Woman 1984” and “Zombieland: Double Tap”) and is the 25th movie in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film stars Simu Liu (Kim’s Convenience) as the titular Shang-Chi who must confront the past he thought he left behind when he is drawn into the web of the mysterious Ten Rings organization lead by his father, Wenwu (played by Hong Kong acting legend Tony Leung). Destin Daniel Cretton is the director of one of my all time favorite movies, “Short Term 12,” and is a director I have been keeping an eye on for awhile, so when it was announced back in March of 2019 that he was hired on to direct a new Marvel film, I was pretty excited. However, I was also very cautious because Cretton has only ever made dramatic films, never once touching anything near as action-packed or huge as an MCU movie. Does he have what it takes to direct a movie on such a large scale as Shang-Chi? Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Jordan Wooodson can be reached at jwoodson@thecabin.net     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.