Medscape Univadis Medscape Univadis No Results No Results Janarthanan Sathananthan; Timothy Watson; Robert J Whitbourn; James T Stewart; Robert N Doughty; John A Ormiston; Mark WI Webster Interv Cardiol. 2014;6(1):57-69.  In addition to those devices currently available commercially, numerous novel device technologies are under development, and existing catheter systems continue to be improved. It is likely that many systems will soon be 6 F guide-compatible and able to access the renal arteries via a radial approach, which should reduce vascular access site-related complications. In addition there may be noninvasive denervation procedures, such as externally applied ultrasound. The Symplicity Spyral Multi-Electrode RDN catheter (Medtronic, Inc.) is an evolution of the single electrode Symplicity catheter, using four electrodes to deliver RF energy simultaneously via a highly conformable catheter. The new design was developed to reduce procedure time, and allow improved deliverability and consistency of energy application. An early feasibility study was conducted in 29 patients with similar inclusion and exclusion to Symplicity HTN-1. At 1-month BP reduction was 16/7 mmHg compared with baseline, while procedural time was reduced by 33 min compared with the single electrode catheter used in Symplicity HTN-2.[103]  Several other ultrasound based systems are also available. TIVUS (Cardiosonic, Tel Aviv, Israel) utilizes high intensity ultrasound delivered endoluminally, and is currently undergoing preclinical evaluation. In contrast to high intensity TIVUS and ReCor systems, the Kona Medical system (Campbell, CA, USA) uses low intensity focused ultrasound directed from an external source. Although early clinical studies used an endoluminal tracer beacon sited in the renal artery, it is hoped that once tissue penetration paths have been fully characterized, the device will become entirely noninvasive. In addition, adapting standard electrophysiology cryocatheters for RDN procedures has been considered. Theoretic advantages of utilizing this technology relate to concerns that heat generated at the tissue-electrode interface during RF energy delivery may produce superficial injury but limit the depth of the lesion, while creating a nidus for char formation on the catheter. Both ThermoCool (Biosense Webster, CA, USA) and Mariner (Medtronic, Inc.) have tested devices with initial experience being promising. Another method for achieving RDN is by locally delivered autonomic nerve-blocking drugs. The Bullfrog Microinfusion catheter (Mercator MedSystems, Inc., CA, USA) has a catheter tipped with a balloon-sheathed microneedle. Localized sympathectomy is achieved by delivery of guanethidine through the microneedle after stabilization of the balloon by inflation with saline. Early experimental studies in porcine models demonstrated successful drug delivery and a significant reduction in renal norepinephrine release.[46]  Interv Cardiol. 2014;6(1):57-69. © 2014 Future Medicine Ltd.   Janarthanan Sathananthan1, Timothy Watson*1,2,3, Robert J Whitbourn4, James T Stewart1,2, Robert N Doughty1,2, John A Ormiston1,2 & Mark WI Webster1,2    1Green Lane Cardiovascular Service, Auckland City Hospital, Park Road, Auckland, New Zealand 2Department of Medicine & National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand 3Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaysia, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 4St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia  *Author for correspondence  Tel.: +60 3 7949 2585 Fax: +60 3 7949 4613 timothy.watson@me.com    Burden of hypertension   Essential hypertension is a global epidemic that is a major contributor to cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Despite lifestyle measures and medical therapy there is a significant cohort of patients that have hypertension that is resistant to standard treatment strategies.   Catheter-based sympathetic renal denervation   Catheter-based sympathetic renal denervation (RDN) is a novel iteration of a historical but effective treatment for hypertension. A number of different device systems have demonstrated a significant reduction in office blood pressure within the context of several small safety and feasibility studies, although the impact on ambulatory blood pressure appears to be less dramatic.   Conclusion   Early findings of catheter-based RDN studies have been promising. However, (blinded) randomized controlled trial data, including outcome measures is required to further assess the efficacy of RDN and define the place of this procedure in contemporary practice.   Future perspective   RDN has the potential to become an important adjunct to best medical therapy for the treatment of resistant hypertension. Although the presently available data is inconsistent with a number of methodological flaws, ongoing research including randomized trials incorporating a sham procedure will help to define both the efficacy of RDN compared with best medical therapy, and the place of this procedure in contemporary practice. Although currently being investigated primarily as a tool to improve blood pressure, it is feasible that RDN may encompass a broader range of applications where sympathetic nervous system overactivity is detrimental. This includes conditions such as heart failure, where RDN may be useful to augment the effect of current pharmaceutical therapy. You have already selected  for My Alerts Click the topic below to receive emails when new articles are available. You've successfully added  to your alerts. You will receive email when new content is published. processing.... 