 Scorecard; Listen to TMS overseas & on BBC Sounds; Quiz: Who has 3,000 runs & 200 wickets in Tests? And we'll keep you signed in. Sign in  or  Register You need one to watch live TV on any channel or device, and BBC programmes on iPlayer. It’s the law.   Matthew Henry and Tom Mallows All times stated are UK Every run will doubly hurt Chris Woakes now. He'll still have that sickening feeling in his stomach. Mitchell Starc clubs a short ball to the fence before taking a single. Vic Marks Former England spinner on BBC Test Match Special In terms of runs it's not costing England too much here but in terms of time it's trickling away. Mitchell Starc turns down the runs from the first four balls of Jimmy Anderson's over before taking one from the fifth. That leaves Anderson with one ball to Josh Hazlewood and the veteran seamer bowls far too wide. Vic Marks Former England spinner on BBC Test Match Special I suppose this means there is scope for Jimmy to pick up his second wicket. The five-fer for Woakes is on hold. We've just seen another replay of that Woakes no-ball. It was very tight. Sam Drury BBC Sport cricket writer at Old Trafford Mitchell Starc was on his way up the stairs to the changing room before having to turn and walk back. Looking at the replay, I think that's a very harsh no-ball call. Let's stick to the positives though. England already have a wicket this morning. Here is how James Anderson got it... Vic Marks Former England spinner on BBC Test Match Special Time is money in this game. What was I saying about the relentless nature of this series? England's openers Zak Crawley and Ben Duckett were already running off the field. England really have to hope that doesn't cost them. Woakes is chuntering to the umpire but he's surely just annoyed with himself. Jonathan Agnew BBC cricket correspondent on Test Match Special What is Woakes doing bowling no-balls? Oh wait! It's a no-ball from Chris Woakes... Hazlewood c Crawley b Woakes 1 (Aus 300) Josh Hazlewood edges Chris Woakes to second slip. That's it, or is it?! #bbccricket, via WhatsApp on 03301231826 or text 81111 (standard network charges apply) Joe Hirst: Can all those who were still doubting Jimmy Anderson please move to the back of the room. Starc 23, Hazlewood 1 Australia have their first run of the day, which is also their 300th of the innings. It's edgy from Josh Hazlewood off Anderson but it squirts away into a gap. Anderson manages to keep Hazlewood on strike for the next over though.  This series really is just relentlessly breathless, isn't it? Sam Drury BBC Sport cricket writer at Old Trafford Jimmy Anderson was out on his own to bowl a few deliveries right before the start of play. Looks like it worked! Josh Hazlewood is almost bowled by Jimmy Anderson first up! Vic Marks Former England spinner on BBC Test Match Special What a remarkable start, surely this is not Australia's plan. The crowd hadn't even settled yet but they made a lot of noise. Jonathan Agnew BBC cricket correspondent on Test Match Special You couldn't ask for a more dramatic start to the day than that! Cummins c Stokes b Anderson 1 (Aus 299-9) FIRST BALL! Jimmy Anderson has had to wait and wait for a wicket in this match and then gets it in the easiest fashion right at the start of day two. Pat Cummins has just driven straight to cover point. Old Trafford is still filing up but it erupts with noise. I mentioned Chris Woakes but it's going to be Jimmy Anderson to start us off.  This ball is just three overs old, remember. England need to wrap this Aussie innings up sharpish.