Local news: Former Home and Away star Tammin Sursok has opened up on the “life-changing” moment she auditioned for a big American TV series. In Australia, she shot to fame as Dani Sutherland on the popular Channel 7 drama. WATCH THE VIDEO ABOVE: Tammin Sursok talks about body confidence on TMS Know the news with the 7NEWS app: Download today  After leaving Home and Away in 2004, Sursok moved from Australia to the US to pursue new career opportunities in music and acting. When her album Whatever Will Be quickly dropped out of the charts in 2005, she decided to focus on pursuing TV and film roles. Her first breakthrough role was on daytime soap The Young And The Restless, where she played Colleen Carlton between 2007 and 2009. Other roles followed, from Hannah Montana to the made-for-TV musical film Spectacular! But it was the teen mystery drama Pretty Little Liars, and her role as visually impaired teenager Jenna Marshall, that was her major breakthrough moment in the US. Sursok now says landing the role was a transformative moment in her life. “I remember being really nervous,” she told Yahoo Lifestyle of her audition, which was actually for the role of Spencer. “I thought it was the worst audition I’d ever done. “And I called my husband after that audition and said, ‘I’m giving up acting, like, I’m done’. “Which proves that you don’t have any idea about what you’re feeling compared to what you’re showing, because they loved the audition. “And they didn’t think I was right for the Spencer role but they had me in mind for the Jenna role.” Sursok re-auditioned for Jenna, and the rest is history - some 2.47 million viewers tuned in to watch the first episode, which aired in June 2010. The actress said the show’s end was an emotional time for everyone involved. “My (last) scene was not at the finale,” she said. “I think it would have been really emotional if I was there at the finale, I know that all the girls were there, and everyone was very emotional, which is what we would expect from something being on for seven years, and just changing all of our lives.” Sursok’s final scene was brief - her character came in on a horse - and then “they had to go to the next scene”, she recalled. “So I felt really emotional, but I think everyone just had to move, move on really quickly,” she added. “But I think as a whole, like when I left that night ... I felt really reflective, and I thought wow, this has completely changed my life. “What Home and Away did in Australia for me is what Pretty Little Liars did in America, and you spend your whole life waiting for that big break.” For more engaging celebrity content, visit 7Life on Facebook. 3 min read 3 min read Stream free on 2 min read 3 min read 2 min read 2 min read 2 min read 1 min read 1 min read 1 min read 2 min read 3 min read 2 min read 2 min read 2 min read 1 min read 1 min read 1 min read Stay informed with the free 7NEWS app. Available on iOS & Android.