CONTRIBUTED CONTENT — Premier Health and Wellness, a leading destination in Southern Utah providing complete health and wellness support and offering expanded services for the mind, body and soul, announces its grand re-opening on Tuesday, April 4.  Premier Health and Wellness is located at 1490 E. Foremaster Drive, Suite 340 in St. George. Doors open at 4 p.m., and the event includes a ribbon-cutting ceremony at 4:44 p.m., food, product demonstrations, tours and pop-up classes from 5-6 p.m. Premier Health and Wellness is one of the only treatment centers in Utah delivering a unique combination of individualized modalities and solutions under one roof providing a one-stop destination for everything health, healing and wellness for their clientele. Their areas of focus include psychological and psychiatric therapies, fitness and nutrition, medical spa and salon and primary care.  They also provide NeuroStar TMS depression treatment. Transcranial magnetic stimulation, a relatively new type of treatment, is recommended by the FDA as a safe and effective treatment option for depression that has had significant success in improving overall mental state.  TMS treatment is a noninvasive procedure that stimulates the brain using electromagnetic fields, similar to those produced by an MRI machine. During NeuroStar TMS therapy, a magnetic field is administered in very short pulses to the part of the brain that research has demonstrated to be associated with depression.  The procedure is customized to each patient and may include recommendations for other supporting services at Premier Health and Wellness. The typical initial course of treatment is about 19-37 minutes daily over four to six weeks.  Premier Health and Wellness provides psychiatric medication management for clients in addition to psychological counseling and consulting. This service includes individualized and customized counseling and treatments for those with depression, anxiety and PTSD in addition to support services for military veterans.  At Premier Health and Wellness, they believe in promoting functional lifestyle change through therapy, recovery and healing for children, adolescents, adults and families.  They’re the first clinic in Utah to offer outpatient counseling and recovery for individuals who have suffered traumatic brain injuries and strokes. Other services they provide in this area of focus include ketamine therapy (intravenous and intramuscular), Spravato and medical cannabis evaluations and prescriptions.  The integration of fitness and nutrition into any health and wellness plan is essential, and Premier Health and Wellness incorporates this into their overall plan to transform and connect the mind, body, emotions and spirit to create newly formed mindfulness and healthy habits. The cornerstone program is entitled Premier Fit. Besides daily and weekly personalized fitness and nutrition assessments, as well as instruction and management for clients, Premier Fit offers a six-week challenge for health and wellness that pushes each individual mentally, physically, emotionally and soulfully in the direction of mental wellness and success.  This includes customized nutrition plans, daily group fitness with specifically designed exercise routines, reading inspiring literature, melody healing through music and gathering with others to offer support. This program is designed to meet a person exactly where they are and assist them in bettering themselves. Premier Health and Wellness also provides a medical spa and salon offering salon and customized aesthetic services to enhance the mind and body experience and improve overall mental health.  The addition of the medical spa and salon completes the mind and body connection for clients to achieve the full experience of health, beauty and wellness. Premier Health and Fitness also offers primary care focusing primarily on weight loss management, hormone evaluations and replacements and contraceptives.  • S P O N S O R E D  C O N T E N T • Resources Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2023, all rights reserved. Sponsored content may be submitted to or developed by St. George News for publication on behalf of the sponsor and in the sponsor's interest. It may include promotional pieces, features, announcements, news releases and advertisements. Opinions expressed in sponsored content are those of the sponsor and not representative of St. George News. Sponsors have no influence over St. George News reporting and product apart from their own sponsored content. Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Download Our App