We are just a matter of months away from the new Premier League campaign and the transfer window opens this week The Premier League campaign may have concluded a matter of weeks ago but this week the transfer window reopens ahead of the 2023-24 season. It promises to be a busy window for both Everton and Liverpool, regardless of which division the latter will be competing in next year. Liverpool have already welcomed the arrival of Alexis Mac Allister after he signed from Brighton & Hove Albion for an undisclosed fee last week. The movement isn't expected to stop there as Jurgen Klopp faces arguably the busiest, yet, most important transfer window of his reign as he looks to transform the squad. At Goodison Park, the Blues require a squad refresh as Sean Dyche looks to clear out deadwood left from previous managers with additions needed across the pitch. READ MORE: Andre Gomes raises question over Everton future in emotional message after Lille loan We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info READ MORE: Jorg Schmadtke working on two shortlists for double Liverpool transfer plan Read on below for the latest information relating to the upcoming transfer window. This Wednesday (June 14) is the start date from which clubs in England can begin to conduct their business. The window will then close on September 1 at 11pm. Any international deals will not go through until the start of July, meaning only domestic deals can be officially completed before this period. The winter window will open on January 1 2024 and will close at 11pm on February 1. Yes, but only through the use of a deal sheet. This provides clubs additional time to complete the formalities of a transfer, provided it is submitted after 9pm. Clubs that opt in are given two hours extra, or until 1am, to submit paperwork in full. This applies only to domestic deals and not international transfers, which follows the FIFA Transfer Matching System (TMS) deadline of midnight. The maximum number of loans clubs are permitted to register in the same season is four. Sides are unable to loan more than one player from the same club under any circumstances. READ NEXT: