Ben Stokes bowled only two overs in England's defeat in Wellington as he continues to struggle with a left knee injury Ben Stokes is determined to overcome a persistent knee problem and lead England to Ashes glory, according to coach Brendon McCullum. The captain bowled only two overs and struggled while batting in the fourth innings of a thrilling one-run second-Test loss to New Zealand in Wellington. Stokes admitted it was "very frustrating" but hopes the problem will be resolved before the summer. "Hopefully come the Ashes, I won't have to worry about it," he told BT Sport. NZ beat England by one run in all-time great finish Stokes 'blessed' to be a part of thrilling NZ defeat TMS Podcast: NZ edge England in one of greatest Test matches After winning 10 of 12 Tests since Stokes was appointed captain, England are aiming for a first Ashes series win since 2015 this summer and have three and a half months to ensure the skipper is fully fit. "He's not moving that well at the moment but the skipper writes his own scripts and he doesn't get a better stage to write one than the Ashes," McCullum told BBC Sport. "I'm sure he'll be sweet as soon as that arrives." Speaking to BT Sport, he added: "Stokesy's knee is just something we have to monitor. He's off to the IPL where there is slightly less demand on his conditioning so hopefully he'll be fine. "He's a tough bloke. He'll find a way to get through and I know he's determined to lead this team to Ashes glory as well. We look forward to it." Despite the ongoing concerns over his left knee, the 31-year-old all-rounder appeared to confirm he would still play for Chennai Super Kings at the Indian Premier League and suggested his spell in India could actually help his fitness. "We've got three, four months before we get to the Ashes," he said. "We're working incredibly hard with our physios and medics to get everything strength-wise around it. But it's very difficult, out here especially, to get those things in because once the Tests start they come thick and fast. "It's a good opportunity out in India now to get myself in a position where I don't have to worry about my knee any more. "I'm not going to lie - it is very frustrating knowing that I've got something holding me back in terms of my body. But I'll be doing everything I possibly can to allow me to fulfil that fourth-seamer role like I was able to two or three years ago." June 1-4 Only Test v Ireland, Lord's (11:00) 16-20 1st Test v Australia, Edgbaston (11:00) 28-2 July 2nd Test v Australia, Lord's (11:00) July 6-10 3rd Test v Australia, Headingley (11:00) 19-23 4th Test v Australia, Old Trafford (11:00) 27-31 5th Test v Australia, The Oval (11:00) 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.