We are experiencing some temporary issues. The market data on this page is currently delayed. Please bear with us as we address this and restore your personalized lists. Barnes Group Inc. provides engineered products, industrial technologies, and solutions in the United States and internationally. The company operates through two segments: Industrial and Aerospace. The Industrial segment offers precision components, products, and systems used by various customers in end-markets, such as mobility, industrial equipment, automation, personal care, packaging, electronics, and medical devices. This segment also designs and manufactures hot runner systems, mold cavity sensors and process control systems, and precision high cavitation mold assemblies for injection molding applications; provides force and motion control solutions for various metal forming and other industrial markets; and designs and develops robotic grippers, end-of-arm tooling systems, sensors, and other automation components for intelligent robotic handling solutions and industrial automation applications. In addition, it manufactures and supplies precision mechanical products, including mechanical springs, and high-precision punched and fine-blanked components used in mobility and industrial applications. This segment sells its products primarily through its direct sales force and distribution channels. The Aerospace segment produces fabricated and precision machined components and assemblies for turbine engines; and nacelles and structures for commercial and defense-related aircraft. It also provides aircraft engine component maintenance, repair, and overhaul services for turbine engine manufacturers, commercial airlines, and defense market; and manufactures and delivers aerospace aftermarket spare parts. This segment serves original equipment manufacturing industry. Barnes Group Inc. was founded in 1857 and is headquartered in Bristol, Connecticut. 6,500 December 31 Industrials    Specialty Industrial Machinery    Trailing total returns as of 7/26/2024, which may include dividends or other distributions. Benchmark is   Select to analyze similar companies using key performance metrics; select up to 4 stocks. Market Cap   2.14B  Enterprise Value   3.37B  Trailing P/E   467.89  Forward P/E   24.04  PEG Ratio (5yr expected)   2.41  Price/Sales  (ttm) 1.39  Price/Book  (mrq) 1.60  Enterprise Value/Revenue   2.18  Enterprise Value/EBITDA   14.62  Profit Margin   0.31% Return on Assets  (ttm) 3.95% Return on Equity  (ttm) 0.35% Revenue  (ttm) 1.55B Net Income Avi to Common  (ttm) 4.78M Diluted EPS  (ttm) 0.09 Total Cash  (mrq) 81.64M Total Debt/Equity  (mrq) 98.70% Levered Free Cash Flow  (ttm) 23.94M B does not have Company Insights BARNES GROUP INC has an Investment Rating of HOLD; a target price of $46.000000; an Industry Subrating of Low; a Management Subrating of Medium; a Safety Subrating of Low; a Financial Strength Subrating of Medium; a Growth Subrating of Medium; and a Value Subrating of High.  BARNES GROUP INC has an Investment Rating of HOLD; a target price of $47.000000; an Industry Subrating of Low; a Management Subrating of Medium; a Safety Subrating of Low; a Financial Strength Subrating of Medium; a Growth Subrating of Medium; and a Value Subrating of High.  BARNES GROUP INC has an Investment Rating of HOLD; a target price of $42.000000; an Industry Subrating of Low; a Management Subrating of Medium; a Safety Subrating of Low; a Financial Strength Subrating of Medium; a Growth Subrating of Medium; and a Value Subrating of High.  BARNES GROUP INC has an Investment Rating of HOLD; a target price of $42.000000; an Industry Subrating of Low; a Management Subrating of Medium; a Safety Subrating of Low; a Financial Strength Subrating of Medium; a Growth Subrating of Medium; and a Value Subrating of High.  Sign in to access your portfolio