Another New York import has arrived in Miami Beach. Yes. Another one. Bondi Sushi has opened its first location outside of New York slightly off the beaten Beach path on West Avenue. The restaurant, which has six locations in New York, including spots like Tribeca, Williamsburg and the Upper West and East Sides, is the largest in square footage for the brand. The 1,650-square-foot space includes a maple sushi bar with 24 seats, as well as mushroom wood walls and wood paneling with details in velvet. You can also order take out or dine outside on the 16-seat patio. The menu will feature many of the famous Bondi offerings, like caviar toast, uni toast and crispy rice with your choice of spicy tuna, lobster yuzu or truffle avocado. Miami is obsessed with luxury omakase dining. Here’s everything you need to know But you won’t miss out if you order to go. Bondi sells 12-piece and 16-piece delivery combo boxes with nigiri (a ball of rice topped with some kind of seafood or possibly steak). The combo boxes feature items like sea scallop with lime and pink sea salt; tuna with tofu sauce; chu toro with Kizami wasabi and caviar; spicy crab and seared A5 Wagyu. Handrolls include toro scallion, seared unagi avocado and eggplant miso. The new Bondi will also offer a few only-in-Miami offerings, such as the Luxe Box, a to-go item with eight pieces of nigiri, eight pieces of maki (sushi roll) including lobster, three pieces of crispy rice (your choice) and Chirashi salad with salmon, tuna, hamachi and salmon roe over rice. If you choose to eat at the restaurant, you’ll want to check out the cocktail menu, curated by Bondi’s sister concept Shinji’s. Expect drinks like the Seafoam with citrus sake, cocchi Americano, blue spirulina, yuzu and seafoam; Honey Dew with Shochu, Midori; cucumber, shiso, lime nad Brut sparkling wine; and the Black Velvet, an espresso martini with sake, cynar, sweet vermouth, coffee and sugar. Bondi Sushi plans to expand further into Miami, with new locations coming in Midtown and Brickell. Where: 959 West Ave., Miami Beach Hours: 11 a.m.-11 p.m. daily Reservations: Resy More information: www.bondisushi.com or 786-779-1522 This chef led a restaurant to a Michelin star. Now he’s opening a spot in Coral Gables New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.