It’s a reality we could scarcely have imagined a generation ago. People today can be transported to far-off destinations, experience historical events and learn new skills via state-of-the-art technologies without leaving the comfort of their own home.  Through virtual and augmented reality tools, people today can experience real-world activities through digital simulations. Today’s biggest companies and investors are leaning into virtual technologies, where learning and growth are being reimagined and the workforce of tomorrow is being built. It’s predicted the metaverse economy will see trillions of dollars in activity before this decade is over. Best of all, some of the people making it happen are right here in our own backyard. Today, there is a hidden enterprise in Lansing that’s producing some of the most transformative technologies our world has ever known. At Haptix Studio, the largest virtual reality/motion capture studio in the Midwest and the production facility of Great Lakes Reality Labs, a piece of Michigan’s future is being built. Through compelling content that supports workforce development, skill building, and renewed economic potential, the dreams of future generations are coming to life. This work is not only on the cutting edge of what’s possible, but also highlights the opportunities that exist for today’s young people as they explore their future learning and prospects for career growth. So while the major production companies are developing virtual reality entertainment experiences, here in Lansing we are creating learning content that can keep building our state’s future. We’re not alone in recognizing the power of XR technologies. In adopting the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, Congress identified “immersive technologies” as a key focus area. The act funds billions of dollars for research and investment. Regions that have the infrastructure and partnerships in place will benefit greatly. After all, what’s more compelling to a young person — the opportunity to practice welding, the culinary arts or other vocational experiences in an immersive, interactive environment, or simply being lectured about it? The research agrees: according to the National Training Laboratory, students learn best through experience and simulation, retaining more than 75% of the information versus 5%-10% after hearing a lecture. Even better, virtual content is 100% replicable and affordable once it’s been created. This allows for solutions accessible to all. We’re eager to partner with state policy leaders to ensure we can continue to transform the lives of students – and our economic future – through virtual and augmented reality. We’re asking the Michigan Legislature for $15 million to help kickstart the development of the Michigan Training Innovation Center right here in mid-Michigan. Using federal COVID relief dollars that remain unspent, we can use one-time money to create a growing hub of knowledge, creativity and leadership for future generations. But that isn’t all we have to look forward to. When we’ve taken the lead on investing in these kinds of assets, our children will reap the dividends. We know what is possible. We have everything we need to make it happen. All that’s missing is your participation. We invite you to join our coalition by visiting MichigaNext.org. and signing on today. Let’s make mid-Michigan a leader in everything that’s on the horizon. Tim Daman is president and CEO of the Lansing Regional Chamber of Commerce. Jason Mellema is superintendent of the Ingham Intermediate School District.