"Defense wins championships," as they say. For the New Orleans Saints it is safe to say that nothing has been more consistently successful than the defensive side of the ball. Even with the addition of quarterback Derek Carr, the Saints' defenders make up the core of their leadership and identity. Getting an early look at an impressive majority of the unit was great during the first week of organized team activities (OTAs), but now we get to look ahead to week two and how things could progress for the team's calling card. New Orleans Saints linebacker Demario Davis (56) looks down the line. Mandatory Credit: Tommy Gilligan-USA TODAY Sports Will Demario Davis be present? As important as it is for the Saints offense to work with its quarterback, the defense would benefit from working with its primary communicator. Davis was present ahead of OTA practices working with numerous players at the team's indoor facility, so it is not like he has been missing all offseason. But being on the field during these early practices certainly has its value. Davis is a consummate professional and there is absolutely no need to question his dedication or blow an absence of his out of proportion. However one can assume that even Davis wants to see himself out on the field getting work in with his teammates. He is the heart of the defense, and one could even say the heart of the entire team. Having that commanding presence available along with other leaders like defensive lineman Cameron Jordan and safety Tyrann Mathieu is invaluable. During the first media portion of OTAs, the Saints’ star cornerback was not present. The good news is that it gave media an opportunity to see both corners Paulson Adebo and Alontae Taylor on the field. The downside is that we did not get an early indication as to what New Orleans plans to do opposite Lattimore. Perhaps greater clarity comes in the second week.  Jul 28, 2022; Metairie, LA, USA; New Orleans Saints cornerback Alontae Taylor (27) reacts after a catch during training camp at Ochsner Sports Performance Center. Mandatory Credit: Stephen Lew-USA TODAY Sports During the first OTA practice, Bresee and Foskey did not see a ton of action in team drills. Not surprising for what was their first day of practice with veterans present. Could that shift going into this week? Perhaps not much can happen in just three practices, sure. But even just getting a more consistent shot with the second team would display their development. The tricky part here is that while an uptick in participation is a good thing, no change does not signal concern. Bresee and Foskey are learning new things and in some cases are rushing from entirely new techniques and alignments. That takes time for the player and team to develop comfort. But if they both happen to show up with more reps on Tuesday, that certainly speaks to them being quick studies and earning more opportunities early. From the looks of things during the first week of OTAs, Jackson was lining up as the top linebacker beside Pete Werner. The team ran quite a bit of three-linebacker sets which is not surprising at this stage, but it seemed that Zack Baun who accompanied them was playing toward the strong side as an on-ball linebacker. That would mean that Jackson is firmly tucked behind Davis and Werner as the third off-ball, coverage player on the team's second level. That is a huge statement in his favor. Many outside of the organization believe that adding a veteran linebacker to help build depth behind their two starters to be the team's last remaining big need. But if they feel that Jackson can hold that spot down and stay healthy, the 2021 Sun Belt Defensive Player of the Year could be the answer for which many are looking. Senior Writer/Reporter for the Saints News Network. 