Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try
                        again. Embrace your Joyful Aging Journey with Wish of a Lifetime from AARP. Help Register Login Login Hi, %{firstName}% Hi, %{firstName}% 
Games
            
 
Car rental
            
 
AARP daily Crossword Puzzle
            
 
Hotels with AARP discounts
            
 
Life Insurance
            
 
AARP Dental Insurance Plans
            
 
Travel
            
 LIMITED TIME OFFER: Labor Day Sale! Join AARP for just $9 per year with a 5-year membership and get a FREE Gift!  Get instant access to members-only products, hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine.    AARP en Español Back  Health Close Menu Wellness Conditions & Treatments Drugs & Supplements Health Care & Coverage Health Benefits AARP Hearing Center 
 Advice on Tinnitus and Hearing Loss
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Brain Health Resources 
 Tools and Explainers on Brain Health
 Your Health 
 8 Major Health Risks for People 50+
 Back  Money Close Menu Scams & Fraud Personal Finance Taxes Retirement Money Benefits Scams & Fraud 
 View and Report Scams in Your Area
 AARP Foundation Tax-Aide 
 Free Tax Preparation Assistance
 AARP Money Map 
 Get Your Finances Back on Track
 Your Money 
 How to Protect What You Collect
 Back  Work & Jobs Close Menu Job Search Careers Small Business Employers Age Discrimination Flexible Work 
 Freelance Jobs You Can Do From Home
 AARP Skills Builder 
 Online Courses to Boost Your Career
 Careers 
 31 Great Ways to Boost Your Career
 ON-DEMAND WEBINARS 
 Tips to Enhance Your Job Search
 Back  Social Security Close Menu Webinars 
 Get More out of Your Benefits
 Enrollment 
 When to Start Taking Social Security
 Basics 
 10 Top Social Security FAQs
 Tools 
 Social Security Benefits Calculator
 Back  Medicare Close Menu Medicare Made Easy 
 Original vs. Medicare Advantage
 Enrollment Guide 
 Step-by-Step Tool for First-Timers
 Prescription Drugs 
 9 Biggest Changes Under New Rx Law 
 Medicare FAQs 
 Quick Answers to Your Top Questions
 Back  Caregiving Close Menu Basics Care at Home Medical Financial & Legal Life Balance Local LONG-TERM CARE 
 ​Understanding Basics of LTC Insurance​
 State Guides 
 Assistance and Services in Your Area
 Prepare to Care Guides 
 How to Develop a Caregiving Plan
 End of Life 
 How to Cope With Grief, Loss
 Back  Games Close Menu All Recently Played Word & Trivia Rewards Atari® & Retro Mahjongg Members Only Staying Sharp Solitare Strategy Arcade Puzzles Card Juegos Daily Mobile Apps More About Games 
 Right Again! Trivia
 
 Right Again! Trivia – Sports
 
 Atari® Video Games
 
 Throwback Thursday Crossword
 Back  Travel Close Menu Travel Tips Vacation Ideas Destinations Travel Benefits Beach Vacation Ideas 
 Fun Beach Vacations
  Road Trips 
 Road Trips For Every Personality
  Passport Access 
 Passports Can Be Renewed Online
  AARP National Park Guide 
 Black Canyon of the Gunnison
  Back  Entertainment & Style Close Menu Movies TV Music Celebrities Beauty & Style Books Movies for Grownups 
 Summer Movie Preview
 Music 
 Jon Bon Jovi’s Long Journey Back
 Looking Back 
 50 World Changers Turning 50
 Back  Family & Relationships Close Menu Sex & Dating 
 7 Dating Dos and 7 Don'ts
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Friends & Family 
 Veterinarians May Use AI to Treat Pets
 Back  Personal Tech Close Menu Home Technology 
 Caregiver’s Guide to Smart Home Tech
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Virtual Community Center 
 Join Free Tech Help Events
 Back  Home & Living Close Menu Your Home 
 Creative Ways to Store Your Pets Gear
 Recipes 
 Meals to Make in the Microwave
 Your Home 
 Wearing Shoes Inside: Pros vs. Cons
 Back  Auto Close Menu Car Buying Driver Safety Maintenance & Safety Trends & Technology AARP Smart Guide 
 How to Clean Your Car
 We Need To Talk 
 Assess Your Loved One's Driving Skills
 Driver Safety 
 AARP Smart Driver Course
 Back  Staying Sharp Close Menu Assessment Challenges Articles Videos Recipes 
 Building Resilience in Difficult Times
 
 Tips for Finding Your Calm
 
 Weight Loss After 50 Challenge
 Back  Podcasts Close Menu 
 Cautionary Tales of Today's Biggest Scams
 
 7 Top Podcasts for Armchair Travelers
 
  Jean Chatzky: ‘Closing the Savings Gap’ 
 Back  Videos Close Menu 
 Quick Digest of Today's Top News
 
 AARP Top Tips for Navigating Life
 
 Get Moving With Our Workout Series
 You are now leaving AARP.org and going to a website that is not operated by AARP. A different privacy policy and terms of service will apply. Christina Ianzito, Anne Heche was working on finishing her new memoir, Call Me Anne, when she died in a car accident in August at age 53 — a headline-grabbing tragedy that led to questions about the quirky actress’s state of mind, drug habits and more. Although the book doesn’t provide any answers to what happened that day, it does reveal Heche’s joyful spirit, despite having had her share of pain and trauma. Join AARP for just $9 per year with a 5-year membership and get a FREE Gift! Join Now A few more notable points from Call Me Anne: Heche writes that “My mother’s favorite (and only) story about me as a girl is that I spent so much time cleaning toilets at home that when I was lucky enough to be in a restaurant, I’d clean the sinks in the bathroom as perfectly as I did at home,” for the benefit of the next customer. “I always did everything I was asked to do, to the best of my ability. In my childhood, it meant my survival.” “I am a white-trash girl from Ohio who was raised in Atlantic City, with one book on our shelves: the Bible,” she notes. She alludes to her parents’ participation in a “sex cult,” and the sexual abuse she experienced, including from her father (she delved more deeply into this trauma in her first memoir, 2001’s Call Me Crazy). “My childhood memories include being locked in dark places, met with masked men and women in shadow so as to not be able to identify the abusers.” Her family had just moved to Chicago, and Heche was enrolled on a full scholarship in a prestigious prep school, Francis Parker, whose alums include Jennifer Beals and Daryl Hannah. One night when Heche was in 10th grade, a casting director looking to fill a part on the soap opera As the World Turns stopped by the school (aware of those alumnae) to see the evening’s performance: Thornton Wilder’s The Skin of Our Teeth, with Heche playing the leading role of Sabina. AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT After the show, Heche writes, “She complimented my performance and then asked if I’d be interested in flying to New York City to screen test for a soap opera. I said, ‘Absolutely!’ (Beat, beat.) ‘What’s a soap opera?’ ” (She was raised without TV.) Just 16, she ended up turning down the part, but a few years later landed the roles of twins Vicky and Marley Love on Another World. 
                        
                        
                            Walmart+
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            $20 off a Walmart+ annual membership
                        
                     After four years on Another World, Heche decided that she should pursue “something ‘normal’ that could be a career.” But a week before she was planning to enroll in Parsons School of Design to study architecture, her agent called her and said she had a shot at a role in a film rendition of O Pioneers!, where she’d play the best friend of Jessica Lange’s character. Lange was her idol, she writes, so she auditioned, got the part and started filming right away in Nebraska. “The rest is history — or herstory, as I like to say.” One of Heche’s agents described her as “a wild animal set free from its cage” when she first arrived in Hollywood. She remembers walking into Oliver Stone’s casting office in those early years: “I had no idea who he was then, but whoever he was, he didn’t look up when I walked into the room, and that seemed rude.” So she crawled under his glass desk and waved at him from below, saying, “ ‘Hi! I’m Anne.’ I smiled. ‘What’s your name?’” Stone would later tell his people to make sure Heche never auditioned for him again. Heche writes that she first glimpsed comedian and TV host DeGeneres at a Vanity Fair Oscar party. She said to her agent, “Who is that?... Can I meet her?” When they were introduced, DeGeneres knew who Heche was, but “I did not have a clue about her, which she found shocking.” She’d never fallen in love with a woman before, and “did not, personally, identify as a lesbian. I simply fell in love! It was, to be clear, as odd to me as anyone else.” But when she decided to go public with their relationship in 1997, Hollywood shunned her. (Read our excerpt about what happened here.)   LEARN MORE ABOUT AARP MEMBERSHIP. Get instant access to members-only products and hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine. ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT On the set of The Juror, Heche was filming a hot sex scene with Alec Baldwin, both basically naked, when she got her period: “Blood was everywhere. … I had just menstruated all over Alec Baldwin and decimated the one set of sheets they had.” She adds, “The life of an architect was looking pretty good at this moment.” He exposed himself to her and “sleazily” suggested she perform a sexual act “and you’ll get the job.” As the world now knows, she was one of countless women the movie producer — now in prison — preyed upon. “He took advantage of his power and position to manipulate them into doing what they would never have chosen to do,” Heche notes. She’s said in interviews that he fired her from a film project after she rejected his advances. Heche repeatedly states her dedication to fostering kindness, love, joy and truth, and encourages readers to embrace them as well: “These are the central tenets of how I live my life, and what I most want you to take away from this book,” she writes in the last chapter. “Remember: Anne says you can do it!” ​Christina Ianzito covers scams and fraud, and is the books editor for aarp.org and AARP The Magazine. Also a longtime travel writer and editor, she received a 2020 Lowell Thomas Award for travel writing from the Society of American Travel Writers Foundation.​ 
        Unlock Access to AARP Members Edition 
 
 Already a Member? Login AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy MORE FROM AARP 
 41 of Winter’s Best New Books


 Hot thrillers, literary novels, memoirs, self-help guides and more to enjoy in early 2023 
 7 Takeaways From Paul Newman’s Memoir
 A new book reveals the star’s insecurities, loneliness and discomfort with fame   
 ​9 New Music Memoirs and Biographies 
 ​Get the inside stories on B.B. King, Led Zeppelin, Stevie Van Zandt and other legends​ AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT AARP VALUE & MEMBER BENEFITS See All 
                        
                        
                            Calm Sleep, Meditation & Relaxation App
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            $21 off a Calm annual subscription
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            AARP Fitness Center
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Workout videos, tips and tricks to help you on your fitness journey
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Hollywood.com
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            5% off all movie tickets
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            AARP® Staying Sharp®
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Activities, recipes, challenges and more with full access to AARP Staying Sharp®
                        
                     SAVE MONEY WITH THESE LIMITED-TIME OFFERS  AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age. About Us Membership Policy & Research Newsletters AARP In Your City AARP En Español AARP樂齡會 AARP Foundation Wish of a Lifetime Senior Planet | OATS AgeTech Collaborative™ Legal Counsel for the Elderly