Michigan planted its flag, Baker Mayfield style, at midfield of Ohio Stadium after outplaying and outcoaching Ohio State. C.J. Stroud, who has put up great numbers as a Buckeye, is 0-2 against the Wolverines and might have seen his Heisman hopes slip away again in a loss to his most hated rival. C.J. Stroud's legacy:Ohio State quarterback C.J. Stroud knows what fans will say: 'I never won The Game' Ohio State vs. Michigan 2022:'Competitive stamina' follows Ohio State down the drain against Michigan | Rob Oller A lot went wrong for the Buckeyes as a season with great hopes came to what might be a crashing end. Want to keep up with Ohio State? Don't miss a single Buckeyes story. Get a great deal by subscribing to the Dispatch today at www.dispatch.com/subscribenow/. While the lobbying for a College Football Playoff spot begins, here are five things we learned from Saturday's game: If standout Michigan running back Blake Corum had returned from last week's injury and ripped through the Ohio State defense, then maybe Buckeye fans could use the, "Well, we didn't have Jaxon Smith-Njigba or TreVeyon Henderson or Matt Jones or ..." cry as an excuse. But once Corum called it a day after a few plays, all was level, and that excuse went out the window. Corum is more important to Michigan's attack than the missing Buckeyes are to theirs. He's a Heisman candidate who is the epitome of Michigan toughness. Henderson is electric but is a part-time player who misses a lot of time with injuries. Smith-Njigba is great but hasn't played for almost the entire season. Jones was a staple on a line that has had its toughness questioned. 'Ryan Day is playing checkers': Ohio State football fans react to loss to Michigan Ohio State-Michigan:Bottom line: How did the Buckeyes grade out vs. Michigan? Michigan found a way to respond, and Donovan Edwards rushed for 216 yards on Saturday. Ohio State gave most of its carries to a linebacker, Chip Trayanum, who gained 83 yards on 14 carries after having only one rush all season. The star of last week's win at Maryland, freshman running back Dallan Hayden, was forgotten and had only two touches for 7 yards. Co-starter Miyan Williams, back from injury, looked healthy but had only eight carries for 34 yards. Network TV types get advantages nobody else in the media does in that they get to talk to coaches of both teams with the understanding that what is said in that room stays in that room. So when FOX's Joel Klatt casually dropped before the game that Michigan's defensive coordinator had a bunch of schemes planned that he had devised and saved to confuse Stroud, X's and O's geeks became quite interested. Oddly, none of those schemes involved blitzing or harassing Stroud the way Michigan did last year. Instead, Stroud enjoyed a super-clean pocket but had great difficulty finding any of his five-star receivers open. It was a safe, keep-everything-in-front defense, and the result was confusion on the Ohio State side and maybe Stroud losing the Heisman. On the other side, Ohio State's Jim Knowles went with a high-risk scheme of playing forward and filling the gaps to stop the run. That left man-to-man coverage with no deep safety help. That's great fun when it works, but when your coverage is the weak part of your defense, chaos can ensue. Granted, nobody expected Michigan quarterback J.J. McCarthy to actually throw accurately, but many of his big-play targets were wide open. In the end, big plays killed the Buckeyes. Why we running cover 0 there?! — Jordan Fuller (@j_fuller4) November 26, 2022 No, Ryan Day shouldn't be fired, as the knee-jerks and drunks on High Street and Twitter were wishing late Saturday. But how the Ohio State coach handles a second straight loss to Michigan will be interesting. Ohio State Sports Insider:Sign up for the Ohio State Sports Insider text group with Dispatch reporters Day wears the stress of Michigan week for all to see. He knows the pressure, and he acknowledges it regularly. But he does so in a manner that doesn't really make listeners feel that he enjoys it. It's the way it is around here, he says, and he accepts it. But does a man who can easily move to the NFL want to put up with the criticism that comes with losing one game a year? Does the unfairness of it cause him to look elsewhere? With a 24-20 lead, Michigan took possession at its own 20 with 6:21 remaining in the third quarter. Ohio Stadium was perhaps the loudest it had been all day. The time seemed right for the Buckeyes to finally take charge. What followed was a drive that didn't end until 13:10 remained in the fourth quarter, and it was capped by a 3-yard touchdown run by McCarthy on third-and-3. The Wolverines ran 15 plays, and 10 of them were runs. They converted a third-and-1 at the OSU 30 with a gutsy trick play, as running back Kalel Mullings, recently converted from linebacker, took a handoff, stopped and threw a jump pass to Luke Schoonmaker for 15 yards. Later came a traditional 3-yard run by Donovan Edwards on third-and-3 and a then third-and-10 conversion because of a pass interference call in the end zone against OSU's Ronnie Hickman. It was a drive that could have been a season-saver for the Buckeyes. Instead, it was Michigan returning to the toughness it used in last year's win. That was the game. With a blowout loss, Ohio State's chances for a playoff spot grew slimmer. If the Buckeyes miss out and instead head to another Rose Bowl while Michigan heads to the playoff, Saturday could have marked the end of the college careers of Stroud, Smith-Njigba and others who might choose safety over a bowl game. That was the case last year, when receivers Chris Olave and Garrett Wilson sat out the Rose Bowl. But Stroud and Smith-Njigba were there, so the offense was stable and explosive and contributed to a thrilling Rose Bowl win. Expectations are now that they'll head to the NFL, so there's a good chance we'll see Kyle McCord and maybe Devin Brown throwing to Marvin Harrison Jr. and Emeka Egbuka. For coaches, it's the curse of recruiting so many future NFL players. This article originally appeared on The Columbus Dispatch: Ohio State football loses to Michigan: 5 things we learned about OSU Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season.