In the past, I have copied and published in my column other individuals' work. The following is one of the interesting pieces sent to me by a friend. This forwarded work is titled: "The Many Roads of Life and a Few Words of Wisdom." Enjoy! GREAT TRUTHS THAT LITTLE CHILDREN HAVE LEARNED. No matter how hard you try, you cannot baptize cats. When your mom is mad at your dad, don’t let her brush your hair. If your sister hits you, don’t hit her back. They always catch the second person. Never ask your 3-year-old brother to hold a tomato. You can’t trust dogs to watch your food. Don’t sneeze when someone is cutting your hair. Never hold a Dust Buster and a cat at the same time. You can’t hide a piece of broccoli in a glass of milk. Don’t wear polka-dot underwear under white shorts. The best place to be when you are sad is in grandma’s lap. GREAT TRUTHS THAT ADULTS HAVE LEARNED. Raising teenagers is like nailing jello to a tree. Wrinkles don’t hurt. Families are like fudge. Mostly sweet. With a few nuts. Today’s mighty oak is just yesterday’s nut that held its ground. Laughing is good exercise. It is like jogging on the inside. Middle age is when you choose your cereal for fiber — not the toy. GREAT TRUTHS ABOUT GROWING OLD. Growing old is mandatory, growing up is optional. Forget the health food. I need all the preservatives I can get. When you fall, you wonder what else you can do when you are down there. You’re getting old when you get the same sensation, that you once got from the roller coaster. It is frustrating when you know the answers, but no one bothers to ask the questions. Time may be a great healer, but it is a lousy beautician. Wisdom comes with age, but sometimes age comes alone. THE FOUR STAGES OF LIFE You believe in Santa Claus You don’t believe in Santa Claus You are Santa Claus You look like Santa Claus SUCCESS At age 4 success is ... not peeing your pants. At age 12 success is ... having friends. At age 17 success is ... having a driver’s license. At age 35 success is ... having money. At age 50 success is ... still having money. At age 70 success is ... having a driver’s license. At age 75 success is ... having friends. At age 80+ success is ... (see age 4). I searched the Internet to find the author, but only found a person named Marc Pearl. The internet finding did not give him the credit for the above truisms. So, I am giving Marc Pearl the credit, whether he deserves it or not. As usual, this is just one man’s opinion. — If any of you find anything you think which “tickle’s your funny bone “send it on to me at my email address: jerry.wheepapa.donnelly@gmail.com. It might appear in the Petoskey News-Review, when and if it passes my muster.