In June's issue of RSVP Magazine, celebrities are opening about their bond with their dads ahead of Father's Day - Today FM's Pamela Joyce shares some of her favourite memories Get the latest showbiz news and gossip every day by signing up to our FREE newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest showbiz news and gossip every day by signing up to our FREE newsletter We have more newsletters  Pamela Joyce has said she is "very lucky" to have such a strong and close bond with her father. The Today FM presenter opened up to RSVP Magazine ahead of Father's Day. She reflected on some of her favourite memories with her father Cyril and the important life lesson he has taught her. Read more:Charlie Bird's heartbreaking health update as he admits he's now 'at a crossroads' "I am very close with my dad," said Pamela. "I’m very close with my whole family - family is the most important thing in my life.  "I would say I’m equally close with everyone in my family, which is lovely. But me and my dad have a very special relationship. I’m the youngest of four, and there’s a seven year gap between me and my next sister.  "When they were teenagers, going off and doing their own thing and too embarrassed to hang out with their dad, I was always the one hanging out with him." Some of Pamela's most treasured memories with her dad come from their trips to Clifton together. "He’s from Clifton, so we used to go out and visit his mum for the weekend," she recalled. "It was an hour or so drive from where we were, and we would always listen to Tom Petty."  "I was also obsessed with quizzes, so I would make my dad quiz me the whole way from Galway to Clifton about general knowledge and country capitals. I’d say he was like, ‘please stop talking’." Nowadays, Pamela and her dad still make time to hang out together. "He has gotten me into golf," she said. "Whenever we can, we go out and play a few holes of golf together.  "He’s also my person for when I feel like, ‘Oh sugar, I’m an adult but I still don’t know how to do this thing’ and I ring him. For finances, or pension or anything like that, he’s the person I go to. We’re very, very close and I’m very lucky." One thing Pamela admires the most about her father is that he stays calm in situations that she would usually find herself panicking in. "He’s very level headed," she said. "I grew up with a lot of women, having three sisters and my mum in the house. We’d all be quite emotional and reactive to situations.  "But my dad’s big advice is don’t get worried about something or stress about something that might not even happen, because you’re just putting yourself through the wringer. So if you really want a job or you’re stressed about something financial, he always says there’s no point in stressing because it might never happen. Take everyday as it comes and relax and breathe and don’t be getting worked up about things." Get the latest RSVP headlines straight to your inbox for free by  signing up to our newsletter   Read more:  Former RTÉ presenter Aidan O’Hara passes away at 84 after long illness   Fiona O'Carroll responds to Mrs Brown's Boys criticism 'You're not going to please everybody'  