Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 Ja Morant got anywhere and everywhere he wanted Friday in Memphis, easily dissecting Minnesota’s drop pick-and-roll coverage to attack Rudy Gobert in the paint.That led to more criticism for Minnesota’s defensive stopper, whose impact has been questioned by outsiders at times throughout the season. But the reality is a Gobert-led Minnesota has had success stuffing Morant this season, holding the star guard to shooting performances of 11-for-25 and 8-for-20 in November.In general, Minnesota has given Morant issues over the past two seasons, and the guard was rarely in true control of the game during the playoff series between the two teams back in April.That was when the Timberwolves employed a different defensive look — the high wall pick-and-roll defense in which the team forced the ball out of the hands of the primary handler and then scrambled to cover up open shooters and dunkers. If anything, last season and this campaign have proven that both looks have their problems, but that both also can largely be effective.Per Cleaning the Glass, Gobert’s defensive rating this season is 109.7 points per 100 possessions — which ranks in the 91st percentile among all centers. The same site shows Minnesota’s defensive rating is 7.4 points worse when the three-time Defensive Player of the Year isn’t on the floor. That suggests the Wolves need Gobert in order to adequately defend.But Minnesota has defended at a high level in spurts without Gobert this season, as well, with nearly the same consistency of excellence. The Wolves have defensive ratings of 106.5 points per 100 possessions in 33 percent of Gobert’s starts this season, and achieved the same feat in 36 percent of the games in which he hasn’t played, per Cleaning the Glass.Naz Reid has started 10 games this season, and in those 10 starts the big man has a defensive rating of 105.1, per NBA.com. When Reid starts, Minnesota almost exclusively runs its high wall scheme. That number falls off a cliff to 115.2 when he’s coming off the bench and the Wolves are shifting between defensive looks.Minnesota can run either scheme effectively; the issue lies in switching back and forth between the looks. Toggling pick-and-roll coverages has proven to be a distinct challenge for the Wolves, a big reason why it looks so bad when Gobert is on the bench in games he starts. The Timberwolves do not have the ability to successfully transition between schemes.

Head coach Chris Finch knew that would be one of the most difficult tasks for Minnesota dating back to the start of the season.“Having looked at a lot of the Rudy stuff before he got here, just being able to be able to do those things I think is key,” Finch said earlier this month. “Particularly, if you have plans of playing in the postseason.”Because the NBA’s great offensive players require multiple defensive looks to keep them off balance. That was true against Morant on Friday.“It wasn’t like a ton of blow-bys tonight; it was more coverage of pick-and-roll point of attack tonight,” Finch told reporters Friday. “I just thought we weren’t really into the ball really well. I thought we were too far off the ball at the point. Too far off the ball at the screen. You can’t do that with a player like Ja. You’ve got to take his runway away.”It also was the case against Luka Doncic — the Timberwolves’ star opponent when they play Dallas on Monday — back in a December loss. Gobert played higher up in his pick-and-roll coverage that night to take away Doncic’s looks coming off the screen, and it worked for a large chunk of the evening. But Doncic adjusted and started to pick apart the defense by finding open shooters in the corners, who knocked down key looks in the fourth quarter to put the game away. Only once Minnesota started to switch pick-and-rolls late was it again able to contain the Mavericks’ offense.“I can do anything. It’s just about what’s best for the team. On a player like Luka, I think it’s good to give him different looks.. He’s pretty smart and he can adapt really well. so just try to give him a different look,” Gobert said that night. “I thought it was good when I was up early in the game, then they adjusted. We adjusted, too, just a little — a tad too late.”Kyle Anderson noted in the preseason that Minnesota has the personnel to show multiple defensive looks throughout a game. That, he said, is what good teams do.“The Golden States, Milwaukees, teams like that. They’re able to execute different coverages throughout the game,” Anderson said during training camp. “We want to be a team like that, able to show different looks. That’s going to be up to coach, but when he does call a different coverage, you want to be able to adjust to it and execute.”They have yet to consistently demonstrate that ability, which is why Minnesota remains good, but not great on that end of the floor.“I don’t think a lot of teams do it. . … There’s only eight, nine, 10 good teams in the league. I think they’re the only teams capable of doing it,” Anderson said in training camp. “It’s tough, because you go out and practice one thing and you’re asking your players to do something different in the game. It’s tough for everybody to be on the same page, but I think we’re totally capable of it here.”Four months later, it’s past time to show it.Related Articles
Minnesota Timberwolves |  

			Prime-time Timberwolves: 2024-25 schedule features 18 nationally televised contests		


Minnesota Timberwolves |  

			Report: Timberwolves will play Mavericks on Christmas Day in Dallas		


Minnesota Timberwolves |  

			Jace Frederick: What if, just for these Olympics, Anthony Edwards looked more like Jrue Holiday than LeBron James?		


Minnesota Timberwolves |  

			Jace Frederick: Olympic experience with Team Canada could grow Nickeil Alexander-Walker’s confidence		


Minnesota Timberwolves |  

			Here are the Olympians from Minnesota competing in the Paris Games		

 That led to more criticism for Minnesota’s defensive stopper, whose impact has been questioned by outsiders at times throughout the season. But the reality is a Gobert-led Minnesota has had success stuffing Morant this season, holding the star guard to shooting performances of 11-for-25 and 8-for-20 in November. In general, Minnesota has given Morant issues over the past two seasons, and the guard was rarely in true control of the game during the playoff series between the two teams back in April. That was when the Timberwolves employed a different defensive look — the high wall pick-and-roll defense in which the team forced the ball out of the hands of the primary handler and then scrambled to cover up open shooters and dunkers. If anything, last season and this campaign have proven that both looks have their problems, but that both also can largely be effective. Per Cleaning the Glass, Gobert’s defensive rating this season is 109.7 points per 100 possessions — which ranks in the 91st percentile among all centers. The same site shows Minnesota’s defensive rating is 7.4 points worse when the three-time Defensive Player of the Year isn’t on the floor. That suggests the Wolves need Gobert in order to adequately defend. But Minnesota has defended at a high level in spurts without Gobert this season, as well, with nearly the same consistency of excellence. The Wolves have defensive ratings of 106.5 points per 100 possessions in 33 percent of Gobert’s starts this season, and achieved the same feat in 36 percent of the games in which he hasn’t played, per Cleaning the Glass. Naz Reid has started 10 games this season, and in those 10 starts the big man has a defensive rating of 105.1, per NBA.com. When Reid starts, Minnesota almost exclusively runs its high wall scheme. That number falls off a cliff to 115.2 when he’s coming off the bench and the Wolves are shifting between defensive looks. Minnesota can run either scheme effectively; the issue lies in switching back and forth between the looks. Toggling pick-and-roll coverages has proven to be a distinct challenge for the Wolves, a big reason why it looks so bad when Gobert is on the bench in games he starts. The Timberwolves do not have the ability to successfully transition between schemes. Head coach Chris Finch knew that would be one of the most difficult tasks for Minnesota dating back to the start of the season. “Having looked at a lot of the Rudy stuff before he got here, just being able to be able to do those things I think is key,” Finch said earlier this month. “Particularly, if you have plans of playing in the postseason.” Because the NBA’s great offensive players require multiple defensive looks to keep them off balance. That was true against Morant on Friday. “It wasn’t like a ton of blow-bys tonight; it was more coverage of pick-and-roll point of attack tonight,” Finch told reporters Friday. “I just thought we weren’t really into the ball really well. I thought we were too far off the ball at the point. Too far off the ball at the screen. You can’t do that with a player like Ja. You’ve got to take his runway away.” It also was the case against Luka Doncic — the Timberwolves’ star opponent when they play Dallas on Monday — back in a December loss. Gobert played higher up in his pick-and-roll coverage that night to take away Doncic’s looks coming off the screen, and it worked for a large chunk of the evening. But Doncic adjusted and started to pick apart the defense by finding open shooters in the corners, who knocked down key looks in the fourth quarter to put the game away. Only once Minnesota started to switch pick-and-rolls late was it again able to contain the Mavericks’ offense. “I can do anything. It’s just about what’s best for the team. On a player like Luka, I think it’s good to give him different looks.. He’s pretty smart and he can adapt really well. so just try to give him a different look,” Gobert said that night. “I thought it was good when I was up early in the game, then they adjusted. We adjusted, too, just a little — a tad too late.” Kyle Anderson noted in the preseason that Minnesota has the personnel to show multiple defensive looks throughout a game. That, he said, is what good teams do. “The Golden States, Milwaukees, teams like that. They’re able to execute different coverages throughout the game,” Anderson said during training camp. “We want to be a team like that, able to show different looks. That’s going to be up to coach, but when he does call a different coverage, you want to be able to adjust to it and execute.” They have yet to consistently demonstrate that ability, which is why Minnesota remains good, but not great on that end of the floor. “I don’t think a lot of teams do it. . … There’s only eight, nine, 10 good teams in the league. I think they’re the only teams capable of doing it,” Anderson said in training camp. “It’s tough, because you go out and practice one thing and you’re asking your players to do something different in the game. It’s tough for everybody to be on the same page, but I think we’re totally capable of it here.” Four months later, it’s past time to show it. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group