Sunshine and clouds mixed. High 88F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.. Mostly clear. Low 66F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 1:33 am     North Augusta reporter Samantha Winn is a reporter for The Post and Courier North Augusta. She covers the cities of North Augusta and Augusta, with a focus on community-oriented business and events.
Winn is a graduate of the University of South Carolina. Follow her on X @samanthamwinn and on Instagram @swinnnews.
To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » Samantha Winn is a reporter for The Post and Courier North Augusta. She covers the cities of North Augusta and Augusta, with a focus on community-oriented business and events. Winn is a graduate of the University of South Carolina. Follow her on X @samanthamwinn and on Instagram @swinnnews. To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers »    North Augusta native Zaccheus Miles was on hand March 11 to celebrate  fragrance brand Jo Malone at  the Augusta Mall.  Miles, who works with ZMG PR and Marketing agency, grew up in North Augusta and sought luxury items. “I think that the visibility of having something here in the Augusta area is important because we want to see more,” Miles said. “For Dillard’s to have Jo Malone London here in this store shows that it is more of a success to me and I want to see more brands. Me being in the fashion and beauty industry in retail and PR, I am always looking for other brands to see their involvement, and I think the CSRA has a great opportunity for the development here.” The Jo Malone brand, featured inside Dillard's at the Augusta Mall, focuses on fragrances and other perfume items.  “They have fragrances, they have candles, they have diffusers and it is based out of London," Miles said.  Dillard's store manager Scott Smith and Miles are happy to showcase this product to the region. “One thing is to keep people in Augusta," Smith said. "They don’t have to drive to Atlanta anymore. They don’t have to drive to Charlotte to get these great brands and having Jo Malone is going to .” Smith said the success of Jo Malone will encourage more brands to set up shop in Augusta. “Augusta is a luxury city," Miles said. "I think having brands like this embraces that because I can come and shop and I don’t have to worry about getting something in Dallas or LA and getting on a plane. I can get it right here at home."  
Email
 
Sign Up!
 Samantha Winn covers the cities of North Augusta and Augusta, with a focus on community oriented business and events. Follow her on Twitter: @samanthamwinn and on Facebook and Instagram: @swinnnews.  North Augusta reporter Samantha Winn is a reporter for The Post and Courier North Augusta. She covers the cities of North Augusta and Augusta, with a focus on community-oriented business and events.
Winn is a graduate of the University of South Carolina. Follow her on X @samanthamwinn and on Instagram @swinnnews.
To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » Samantha Winn is a reporter for The Post and Courier North Augusta. She covers the cities of North Augusta and Augusta, with a focus on community-oriented business and events. Winn is a graduate of the University of South Carolina. Follow her on X @samanthamwinn and on Instagram @swinnnews. To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » AUG. 22  Read moreBeer Olympics, GreenJackets baseball and more: Here's how to plan your week in the CSRA The Artists Guild of Columbia County and the Clay Artists of Southeast have exhibits on display at the Arts and Heritage Center of North Augusta.  Read moreArts groups show off work with special exhibit in North Augusta After two and half years, Gold Harvest food bank now has a produce center to provide fresh food to people who live in their 25 county coverage area.  Read moreGolden Harvest Food Bank's Produce Rescue Center provides fresh fruits, vegetables for CSRA Paceline moved to new location to house it's office space in May.  Read morePaceline moves to new location in Augusta Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale