 Trending Source: Paras Griffin / Getty Mary J. Blige  is reminding us why she’s the fashion queen and as usual, we just can’t get enough of her incredible style and fashion sense! Over the weekend, the Queen of R&B was spotted on the scene in an all green Alexandre Vauthier look. She shared photos from her night on the town to her Instagram page, and we just can’t get enough of her effortless slay.  


					Related Stories
				





 

Rihanna Serves A Fly Fall Look In A Stylish Dries Van Noten Trench Coat





 Taking to Instagram, the Grammy Award-winning artist was spotted wearing the green rouched V-neck minidress, which she paired which silver jewelry to match the monochromatic look perfectly. The “Good Morning Gorgeous” singer wore her signature blond locs in a wet and wavy asymmetrical bob and rocked silver hoop earrings as she served face and body while posing for her millions of followers. “Even blind eyes can see the truth- Lil Wayne 💚” Mary captioned the look. Check out the fashionable photo below. If there’s one thing that Mary J. Blige is going to do, it’s serve a LEWK. And this latest ensemble might just be one of our favorites! DON’T MISS… Mary J. Blige Honors Sisterhood With Her First-Ever Strength Of A Woman Festival Mary J. Blige Wears A Number Of Chic Ensembles For Her Strength of a Woman Festival DON’T MISS… 
RELATED TAGS
  
									Coi Leray Does The Big Chop And We're In Love								 
									Tracee Ellis Ross's Topless Selfie Exposes The Selective Outrage, Misogyny, And Ageism That Plagues Black Women								 
									TheNeighborhoodTalk CEO Kyle Simpson On Building The Brand And What's Next								 
									Ari Lennox Is Giving Us Major Body Goals In An Itty-Bitty Dior Bikini On Instagram								 
									Is '90s "It Girl" Maia Campbell Making A Comeback? We Hope So								 
									Alicia Keys' Latest Denim Look Is The Fall Style Inspo We Needed								 
									28 Memorable Nip Slips & Wardrobe Malfunctions You HAVE To See Now (NSFW PHOTOS)								 
									Serena Williams Drops Stunning Maternity Pics In Honor Of Baby Adira’s First Birthday—And We're Obsessed!								 
For 2024’s iteration of MadameNoire and HelloBeautiful’s annual series Women to Know, we knew we wanted to celebrate the people who help make the joys of film and television possible. To create art is to create magic. This year, we spotlight Hollywood Executive’s changing the face of cinema.
 
					We care about your data. See our privacy policy.				 An Urban One Brand Copyright © 2024 Interactive One, LLC. All Rights Reserved.