Rather than designing and manufacturing all products in-house, many medical product companies turn to manufacturing partners like Flex to accelerate time-to-market, better manage risk, provide greater scalability, and meet sustainability objectives. The end goal is to improve healthcare solutions for patients and practitioners. At Flex, we provide a wide range of services, from Design for Excellence (DfX) and advanced manufacturing to automated subassemblies and supply chain management. This ensures procuring the right components at the right time and price, all the way to the finished product with high-precision plastic components and packaging. The medical devices we manufacture range from powered surgical tools to large capital equipment, complex immunoassay machines, and smart, wearable drug delivery systems. Whether you need flexible business models, advanced product design, world-class manufacturing, supply chain management, or circular economy and sustainability programs, Flex is here to help. Delivering large-scale medical equipment and high-volume healthcare consumables and disposables. See our medical equipment manufacturing expertise Providing intelligent, connected medical devices that help consumers and healthcare providers better manage care. Explore our consumer healthcare solutions Enabling drug delivery products that are easy to use, accurate, smart, and connected. Discover how we improve drug delivery Certified sites A total of 27 medical manufacturing sites in four regions and 13 countries, with 14 sites achieving FDA registration, and 24 with ISO 13485:2016 certification Strong partnerships A human factors team that researches and designs for better consumer usability of medical devices, resulting in improved compliance and adherence, and fewer user errors Strong supplier relationships A broad healthcare supply chain of 4,000 supplier relationships and 100,000 active components Medical product innovation Six global design and engineering centers to co-develop medical product innovations Total lifecycle solutions Services including Value Analysis and Value Engineering, Sustaining Engineering, and Circular Economy to optimize the life of the product Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) ESG solutions covering environmental impact assessment, product design for circularity, and end-of-life services including parts harvesting A comprehensive services suite From design to precision injection molding and tool manufacturing, automated product assembly, electronics PCBA, printed and flexible electronics, product test, product system assembly, and final package Flex’s patient-centered design approach has received multiple industry recognitions including Medical Design Excellence Awards and International Design Excellence Awards for products ranging from a surgical navigation system and a breast biopsy table, to a robotic guidewire delivery system and a pneumatic walking boot. From imaging systems to hospital beds, our advanced technology integration and award-winning industrial designs optimize your product delivery. Large-scale medical equipment can be challenging to build and transport. Our highly trained global teams ensure that you have access to global and regional manufacturing, experienced guidance to optimize shipping and regulatory logistics, design engineering, and supply chain stability and flexibility. At the other end of the spectrum of the medical equipment landscape are high-scale, volume-driven healthcare consumables and disposables. Whether your product is high precision or general use, we can help build your single-use products, such as IV bags, diagnostic catheters, tubing sets, wound kits, and other disposable devices, with tight tolerance and repeatability at scale.    Our manufacturing is automated to help lower costs and improve quality. And our supply chain is vertically integrated, which means we can kit, package, and distribute your products around the world. Today’s e-consumers monitor their health status with always-on medical technology and devices that help them manage their healthcare, with the ability to share results with their doctor.     Proactive consumer healthcare monitoring helps healthcare providers by providing vital day-to-day tracking information that can be easily reviewed and frees providers’ time to focus on more complex healthcare challenges. We can help you deliver these intelligent, connected devices to consumers and healthcare providers, from diabetes management systems to surgical tools that are lightweight, untethered, and easy to use. As patients self-administer medicine, solutions that are a part of their daily lives can help keep them on track. A drug delivery product needs to be easy to use, accurate, smart, and connected. Our expertise in sensors, miniaturization of electro-mechanical drive systems, power management, and wearables allow us to codesign drug delivery systems with improved dose accuracy while keeping the device comfortable and easy to use. So, patients can stick to their prescriptions and improve outcomes. We excel at plastic tooling, a key component of drug delivery systems. Our seven global sites are among the largest medical tool-making facilities in the world. And our design teams use Value Analysis and Value Engineering (VAVE) principles to bring value analysis to existing products with the goal to increase value in the market by either decreasing the price, increasing functionality, or both. We use cookies on this site to enhance your user experience. You can learn more about our use of cookies and your choices here. By interacting with this page, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies. Dismiss