Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.  10/10 Stock Score Expected Returns 21.30 % Stock Recommendation Buy Target  Current Price   10/10 Stock Score Expected Returns 17.40 % Stock Recommendation Buy Target  Current Price   10/10 Stock Score Expected Returns 16.90 % Stock Recommendation Buy Target  Current Price  August 19 India has approved Nepal's export of an extra 251 MW of electricity, bringing the total to 1,000 MW. This decision came after discussions be... Last week, a meeting of natural diamond houses was held in Mumbai to discuss the road ahead. They have overcome the sudden crunch during the... Carmakers and dealers are grappling with inventory levels amid slowing demand in India. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (F... Morgan Stanley PE Asia and Samara Capital collectively own 49% of the company while Kotak Pre IPO Opportunities Fund holds 6%. The Kotadias,... Shapoorji Pallonji Group has formed a new holding company, Shapoorji Pallonji Real Estate (SPRE), to consolidate its real estate holdings ac... The second edition of the summit will be held on 26th September in Mumbai and will see participation from top echelons of the government, pu... Tuesday, 20 Aug, 2024 KKR, TPG Capital and Apax Partners are among private equity firms that are evaluating a purchase of India's largest cardiac stent maker Sahajanand Medical Technologies (SMT), valuing the company at about ₹3,500-4,000 crore, said people in the know. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) says their members are carrying stock equivalent to over two months of sales, that is, 730,000 units. Carmakers argue it’s about half that — 400,000-410,000 units. ET reported on April 17 that new entrants have been withholding major investments in UPI, waiting to get a sense of the market share rule. PhonePe and Google Pay dominate UPI payments. Miguel Aleman, a 39-year-old immigrant from Mexico who arrived in the U.S. at age 4, is among those seeking citizenship under a new Biden administration program launching Monday. The "Keeping Families Together" initiative aims to offer legal status to long-term residents who entered the U.S. illegally, providing a pathway to citizenship for up to 500,000 eligible spouses and 50,000 children of U.S. citizens. Working in the United States as a student offers financial benefits and practical skill development, but requires careful navigation of visa regulations. F1 visa holders can work on-campus without USCIS approval, but must ensure jobs align with their visa status and academic goals. Optional Practical Training (OPT) allows for off-campus work related to a student's major, while Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is for work integral to their academic program.  The Indian real estate sector is increasingly attracting non-residential Indians (NRIs), driven by robust economic growth, infrastructure development, and favorable Union Budget measures for FY2024-25. Key changes include simplified income tax regulations for NRIs, relaxed Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) norms, and a reduced tax rate on listed securities. Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life ​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​ What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction? Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight ​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​ ​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​ ​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​ You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career ​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​ Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online Own the Most Important Day In Indian History Google Releases Updates of Rel=Canonical Documentation Google: "How Search Works" Series to Explain SEO Guidelines for Removing Images from Search Index Google Enhances CWV Including INP from March 12 Google Affirms Indexing Problem Impacting Sites 3 Amazing Benefits Of Khus Syrup​​ 10 Breathtaking NASA Images Show India's Diverse Beauty From Space What urine colour says about your health 9 mouthwatering brinjal dishes you must try today Gainers & Losers: Unicommerce, Ola Electric and 4 other stocks hogged limelight on Monday Top 9 home remedies for acne and pimples 9 house plants that instantly make your home look luxurious Kadi patta oil recipe: The ultimate remedy for hair loss How to set up Swiggy UPI account 9 traditional Karnataka snacks perfect for festive occasions 9 ways to add moringa to your meals for good health Adani Power and 3 other stocks closed crossing above VWAP Adrak paani: 8 benefits of drinking it after meals Firstsource Solutions and 2 other stocks close below VWAP DLF and 2 other stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on August 16 These 4 stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest Positive Breakout: Nestle among 5 stocks that crossed above their 200 DMAs ​​At multi-year highs: These 3 stocks witness 5-year swing high breakout​ This German Shepherd Is Worth Rs 3356 cr! ​ 9 classic Gujarati snacks perfect for festivals 9 signs of calcium deficiency you shouldn't ignore 9 hidden dangers of chia seeds Walking outdoors or on a treadmill: What’s best for health? Top 9 superfoods to overcome iron deficiency Rakshabandhan 2024 Menu: 11 Mouthwatering Foods To Celebrate The Festival With Flavor Rakshabandhan 2024: 10 Stunning Mehndi Designs To Celebrate Sibling Love 7 healthy substitutes of butter in cooking 10 Sweets to Gift Your Siblings on Raksha Bandhan 7 snacks one can make with potatoes Raksha Bandhan Special: 9 Places to Visit with Your Siblings In pictures: How Uri locals are making Raksha Bandhan extra special for border soldiers How did PM Modi celebrate Raksha Bandhan this year? Check out the festive photos FD rates touch 9.5%; why it is time to change taxation of fixed deposits How to make changes in EPF account: List of documents to make minor corrections Raksha Bandhan 2024: 6 top financial gift ideas for your sister 5 Kannada movies that are absolutely worth your time ​Who owns NASA and how is it funded? 6 interesting facts Kashmir’s Sun Temple: An 8th century wonder you must see ​Paris Paralympics 2024: Indians who have qualified, Check full list here Mahindra Thar Roxx launched in India: Check five-door SUV details Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Top Prime Articles Top Searched Companies Top Performing MF Top Story Listing Top Commodities Top Definitions Top Slideshow Top Videos Latest News Follow us on: