LOS ANGELES (AP) — For nearly two decades, Phil Donahue was virtually the only TV talk show host to roam his audience with microphone and make them an essential part of his show.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Two 18-year-old men have been charged with murder in the killing of former “General Hospital” actor Johnny Wactor.  NEW YORK (AP) — Harvey Weinstein will remain in custody in New York while awaiting retrial on rape and sexual assault charges in Manhattan, prosecutors confirmed Monday as the former movie mogul made a brief court appearance related to California’s request to extradite him there.  Phil Donahue, whose pioneering daytime talk show launched an indelible television genre that brought success to Oprah Winfrey, Montel Williams, Ellen DeGeneres and many others, has died. He was 88.  NEW YORK (AP) — It's late July. Lainey Wilson is somewhere in Iowa, holding a real road dog — her French bulldog named Hippie — close to her chest. She's on her tour bus, zipping across the Midwest, just another day in her jet set lifestyle. Next month, she'll release her fifth studio album,… ATHENS, Ala. (AP) — Country singer Keith Urban gave just a few hours' notice before performing a free concert Friday night in the parking lot of a large convenience store and gas station in north Alabama.  NEW YORK (AP) — Veteran producer Almin Karamehmedovic, who's been the top behind-the-scenes executive at “World News Tonight” since 2014, has been named ABC News president, the network announced on Monday.  NEW YORK (AP) — The Directors Guild of America will pay tribute to Francis Ford Coppola at its 25th DGA Honors in October.  CALI, Colombia (AP) — Prince Harry and his wife Meghan wrapped up their visit to Colombia on Sunday by participating in a forum on the challenges facing women of African descent as they participate in politics.  LONDON (AP) — The gorilla and other animals that appeared to have escaped from the London Zoo in Banksy 's most recent work have been taken into safekeeping.  “ Alien: Romulus,” the latest installment in the 45-year-old franchise, opened in first place at the North American box office. The 20th Century Studios release earned an estimated $41.5 million in its first weekend, where it was playing in 3,885 locations in the U.S. and Canada.  PARIS (AP) — Alain Delon, the internationally acclaimed French actor who embodied both the bad guy and the policeman and made hearts throb around the world, died at age 88, French media reported.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — The brown felt fedora worn by actor Harrison Ford in the second installment of the Indiana Jones movies sold for $630,000 at auction, film and TV memorabilia company Propstore announced Friday.  LONDON (AP) — Priceless paintings by Monet, Cezanne, Van Gogh and others were unharmed Saturday after firefighters worked to douse a blaze that broke out in the roof of Somerset House, a large central London arts venue, officials said.  BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) — Silvio Santos, a Brazilian television executive and presenter known for his beaming smile and catchphrase “Who wants money?” has died after a decades-long career in the spotlight. He was 93.  NEW YORK (AP) — Maurice Williams, a rhythm and blues singer and composer who with his backing group the Zodiacs became one of music's great one-shot acts with the classic ballad "Stay," has died. He was 86.  TORONTO - Elisapie can’t quite put her finger on it but something within her has recently changed.  ROME (AP) — Madonna will fund an artistic project involving youths, she announced during her 66th birthday celebrations in Pompeii.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — The arrest of five people in the overdose death of Matthew Perry has revealed key details about the final days of the “Friends” star, most of them spent in the throes of an addiction to the surgical anesthetic ketamine.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Lawyers for The-Dream, a Grammy-winning songwriter and producer, are seeking the dismissal of a woman’s lawsuit that accused him of sexual assault and other abuse.  AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — Houston rapper BeatKing, whose booming voice and eccentric songs brought him fame in nightclubs and on social media, has died, his manager said Friday. He was 39.  WASHINGTON (AP) — A Missouri woman has been arrested on charges she orchestrated a brazen scheme to defraud Elvis Presley's family by trying to auction off his Graceland mansion and property before a judge halted the mysterious foreclosure sale, the Justice Department said Friday.  SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Greg Kihn, a rock and roll musician best known for his '80s hit songs “Jeopardy” and “The Breakup Song,” has died. He was 75.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Nearly 10 months after the death of Matthew Perry, the long-simmering investigation into the ketamine that killed him came dramatically into public view with the announcement that five people had been charged with having roles in the overdose of the beloved “Friends” star.  NEW YORK (AP) — Jack Russell, the lead singer of the bluesy '80s metal band Great White whose hits included “Once Bitten Twice Shy” and “Rock Me” and was fronting his band the night 100 people died in a 2003 nightclub fire in Rhode Island, has died. He was 63.  The investigation into the death of “Friends” star Matthew Perry has led to a sweeping indictment that pulled in five people who prosecutors say contributed to his ketamine overdose in October, including two doctors and a street dealer involved in providing Perry large amounts of the powerfu… LOS ANGELES - Eugene and Dan Levy are bringing their father-son comedy stylings to the Emmy Awards.  NEW YORK (AP) — Hettie Jones, an award-winning author, publisher and educator who was the first wife and early muse of the author-poet-activist Amiri Baraka and one of the few women in the Beat literary community, has died at age 90.  NEW YORK (AP) — Eugene Levy and Dan Levy will make history at the Emmy Awards next month as the first ever father and son co-hosts.  If you're not looking too closely, some recent Kamala Harris ads may give the false impression that some leading news organizations are taking sides in the campaign for president.  SALZBURG, Austria (AP) — Offbeat operas have been some of the Salzburg Festival’s best in recent years, the latest a colorful, outlandish and entertaining staging of Sergei Prokofiev’s “The Gambler” by director Peter Sellars.  NEW YORK (AP) — Pop powerhouses, American classics, British artists and the estates of deceased legends — many musicians have objected to Donald Trump using their songs at campaign events.  COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz and Ohio Sen. JD Vance have agreed to debate each other on Oct. 1, setting up a matchup of potential vice presidents as early voting in some states gets underway for the general election.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Five people including his personal assistant and two doctors have been charged in connection with Matthew Perry's death in what prosecutors called a “broad underground criminal network” dedicated to getting the “Friends” star the powerful surgical anesthetic that killed him.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Los Angeles police have arrested four suspects in the fatal shooting of former “General Hospital” actor Johnny Wactor.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Five people have been charged in connection with Matthew Perry’s death from a ketamine overdose last year, including the actor’s assistant and two doctors.  LONDON (AP) — Taylor Swift’s history-making Eras Tour made a triumphant return, accompanied by Ed Sheeran, in London Thursday night.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — Peter Marshall, the actor and singer turned game show host who played straight man to the stars for 16 years on “The Hollywood Squares,” has died. He was 98.  LOS ANGELES (AP) — The new season of “Emily in Paris” will have many of the same elements as the first three: daring fashion, flirty romance and workplace drama. One thing that has changed? The lead actor’s confidence.  Gena Rowlands, hailed as one of the greatest actors to ever practice the craft and a guiding light in independent cinema as a star in groundbreaking movies by her director husband, John Cassavetes, and who later charmed audiences in her son's tear-jerker “The Notebook,” has died. She was 94.  NEW YORK (AP) — Katy Perry will receive the Video Vanguard Award at the 2024 MTV Video Music Awards next month. She will also perform.  There's an old saying “don’t meet your heroes” but for TV creator, showrunner Bill Lawrence, it was a dream come true. Lawrence's new series “Bad Monkey” for Apple TV+, premiering Wednesday, is based on a novel by Carl Hiaasen, one of his favorite authors.  NEW YORK (AP) — The latest Dr. Seuss releases are designed for the very youngest audience.  Canadian country music artists Josh Ross, Madeline Merlo, Tenille Townes and Owen Riegling have been added to the lineup of performers at this year's CCMA Awards.  MADRID (AP) — In her new music video, Katy Perry pretends to be one of the thousands of tourists having the time of their lives on Spain's Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean. But some parts, filmed in a protected natural enclave, could bring trouble.  NEW YORK (AP) — Tinashe refuses to retreat from the unknowns of life — or the music industry — but instead, embraces them. That’s what makes the success of her cheeky, inuendo-filled hit, “Nasty,” taste oh so sweet.  HELENA, Mont. - Quotes from Wyoming's governor and a local prosecutor were the first things that seemed slightly off to Powell Tribune reporter CJ Baker. Then, it was some of the phrases in the stories that struck him as nearly robotic.  Corus Entertainment Inc. has filed a complaint with Canada's broadcasting regulator alleging Rogers Communications Inc. is "engaging in predatory behaviour" to suppress potential competition and breaching its regulatory requirements.  Mark Wahlberg's documentary production house is ringing up "the real BlackBerry story."  LONDON (AP) — On the 10th day, after creating the mountain goat, elephants, pelicans, a rhinoceros and a gorilla, among other animals, Banksy rested.  WASHINGTON (AP) — Kamala Harris' presidential campaign is launching a $90 million advertising effort over the next three weeks to introduce the Democrat to voters and sharpen the contrast with Republican Donald Trump.  If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here. We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Receive daily headlines on local news, sports, entertainment, and more right to your inbox. Sign up now! Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: