On this page: The maximum amount you can claim for food, beverages and entertainment expenses is 50% of the lesser of the following amounts: When you claim expenses on this line, you will have to calculate the allowable part you can claim for business use. These limits also apply to the cost of your meals when you travel or go to a convention, conference or similar event. However, special rules can affect your claim for meals in these cases. For more information, go to Line 9200 – Travel expenses and Convention expenses. These limits do not apply if any of the following apply: Entertainment expenses include tickets and entrance fees to an entertainment or sporting event, gratuities, cover charges and room rentals such as for hospitality suites. For more information, go to Interpretation Bulletin IT-518, Food, Beverages, and Entertainment Expenses. Expenses for food and beverages consumed by a long-haul truck driver during an eligible travel period are deductible at 80%. An eligible travel period is a period of at least 24 continuous hours throughout which the driver is away from the municipality and metropolitan area that he or she resides in (the residential location) and is driving a long-haul truck that transports goods to, or from a location that is beyond a radius of at least 160 kilometres from the residential location. Self-employed foot and bicycle couriers and rickshaw drivers can deduct the cost of the extra food and beverages they must consume in a normal working day (eight hours) because of the nature of their work. The daily flat rate that can be claimed is $23. If you are claiming this deduction, you should be prepared to provide logbooks showing the days worked and the hours worked on each of these days during the tax year. The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) may also ask for dispatch slips or other documents to support the days worked during the tax year. If you want to claim more than the flat-rate amount, the CRA will also need all the following items: