Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  JetBlue is launching an exclusive partnership with NBCUniversal’s streaming service, Peacock. From Spring 2023, all JetBlue passengers will be able to watch a selection of Peacock Originals for free through their HD seatback screen. Through the airline’s complimentary high-speed WiFi, those with a subscription will also have access to Peacock’s full range of entertainment, including series, live sports, movies, and news.
                         In addition, Peacock will be integrated into the airline’s TrueBlue loyalty program, with members benefiting from exclusive discounts on Peacock subscriptions, and those with eligible membership status will be gifted a one-year subscription.
                         The low-cost carrier prides itself on being the only US airline to offer free high-speed WiFi for every passenger, on all of its 287 aircraft. Passengers can connect an unlimited number of devices to stream, browse, or chat throughout the entire flight. Currently, TV shows and movies can be streamed from Amazon – this will change when the exclusive partnership with Peacock kicks in next year. The airline will, however, continue to offer free live TV via DirecTV.
                         JetBlue’s entire fleet, including its 12 Airbus A220-300s and 18 Airbus A321neos, is equipped to offer complimentary high-speed WiFi to all passengers. The carrier has a further 152 aircraft currently on order, which will have at least the same WiFi capabilities.
                         The airline’s head of marketing and loyalty, Jayne O’Brien, said,
                         “We’re excited to partner with Peacock, another fun, witty brand born in NYC to help raise the bar on what inflight entertainment can look like and bring in new ways of delighting our customers in the air and on the ground. JetBlue has a long history of providing industry-leading inflight entertainment and connectivity, and our partnership with Peacock will seamlessly integrate into our TrueBlue program giving customers access to content throughout their travel journey and beyond.”
                         Read more about JetBlue’s ambitious plans to reach net-zero emissions by 2040 here.
                         Peacock is equally as excited about the partnership, with its executive vice president of global partnerships and strategic development, Annie Luo, adding,
                         “As we were working to bring Peacock to viewers at 30,000 feet, JetBlue emerged as the perfect like-minded partner – a brand that puts its customers first, prides itself on innovation, and believes that you can do it all, and have some fun in the process.”
                         Peacock is NBCUniversal’s streaming service, offering a wide selection of on-demand content, from exclusive originals to hit TV shows. Peacock also offers a library of critically acclaimed movies from a range of major studios, including Universal Pictures and DreamWorks Animation. Among the Peacock Originals that will be available free of charge to all passengers are ‘Bel-Air’ and ‘Pitch Perfect: Bumper in Berlin.’
                         The streaming service currently has over 18 million subscribers – a figure which has more than doubled since the start of the year and which NBCUniversal hopes will continue to increase on the back of its partnership with JetBlue next year.
      How important is inflight entertainment to you? Do you make use of the seatback screen, or do you prefer to stream to your own device? Share your thoughts and experiences by commenting below.
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The news comes as the Dutch government takes drastic action to reduce noise pollution at one of Europe's busiest airports. The injured passenger is seeking $170,000 in damages related to the incident. It has applied for enough slots for two daily flights, but there is a problem. A JetBlue Airbus A321 tipped back at its gate at JFK. Today's decision marks a significant victory for the DOJ.  The JetBlue aircraft has left its second diversion airport, Dublin Airport, on July 14 and was bound for JFK.