Movies about clones have been around for ages and are easily a fan favorite. Netflix's new movie "They Cloned Tyrone," which hit the streamer on July 21, is no exception. The film stars Hollywood hotshot John Boyega along with Teyonah Parris and Jamie Foxx. The trio work together to uncover a government cloning conspiracy that sees agents watching the lives of Black people so they can make them vanish and replace them with clones. The movie's twist ending is sure to stick with you long after the credits roll. If you're finished watching "They Cloned Tyrone" and itching to see more movies about clones, check out the list below, and soon you'll be seeing double. Tom Cruise stars as Jack, a member of a team tasked with surveying the smoldering ruins of planet Earth in the year 2077, 60 years after a battle with aliens where Earthlings lost. While on his journey, Jack finds that there are others just like him. Michael Bay brings us this sci-fi thriller in which Lincoln Six Echo (Ewan McGregor) lives trapped in a futuristic, isolated, sterile colony dreaming of winning the lottery that would allow him to ship off to a luxurious life on a distant island. When he finds out that "the island" is all a lie and his fellow citizens are being killed once they leave for the mysterious destination, he plots his escape along with his crush, Jordan Two Delta (Scarlett Johansson), uncovering a revelation that calls everything they ever knew into question: they're clones. Keanu Reeves doesn't just kick butt as John Wick. In "Replicas," the actor stars as William Foster, a genius scientist who lost several family members in a tragic traffic accident. He makes it his only mission to bring his family back to life and clone them using technology that he developed that enables him to transfer someone's consciousness into an android.  You might know him as the Terminator, but in "The 6th Day," Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Adam Gibson, a helicopter pilot who helps airlift wealthy skiers to remote slopes along with his friend Hank (Michael Rapaport). Set in the near future, where cloning is accepted for animals but still considered illegal for humans, a black market for human cloning exists. When Gibson eventually meets a clone of himself, his morals push him to expose and destroy the cloning black market.  "The Boys From Brazil" will make you put on your thinking cap and use it. The sci-fi thriller follows an aging Nazi hunter who uncovers a secret operation in which Dr. Josef Mengele (Gregory Peck) is using Hitler's DNA to develop cloned babies with the hope that one of them will grow up and begin a Fourth Reich. Jordan Peele is known for his thrillers, and "Us" is no exception. The psychological flick brings an eerie sci-fi element to home-invasion horror when the Wilson family's coastal vacation is interrupted by their deranged and disturbing doppelgängers. Sci-fi doesn't have to use a plethora of props to work, and "Swan Song" is a perfect example of that. Mahershala Ali shines in the lead role as a loving family man who's diagnosed with a terminal illness. When he learns of his diagnosis, he's given two options: let the illness run its course, or spare his family from grief by cloning himself without them knowing.  Set in London, two rival magicians (Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman) partner until the tragic death of an assistant during a show. Once they split, the two feud bitterly after one of them performs the ultimate magic trick — teleportation. Experimentation between the pair leads to dangerous new science, ultimately bringing both magicians to the brink of insanity.   In this movie, Charlize Theron leads as an assassin for a group of anti-government rebels known as the Monicans. Set in the year 2415, about 400 years after all but one percent of humans were killed during a pandemic, Aeon realizes humanity has only been kept alive for the past four centuries through human cloning.  In this thriller by award-winning director Ang Lee, an aging hitman (Will Smith) winds up being stalked by a younger clone of himself and must fight his younger self for survival. When Environmental Protection Agency inspector Steve Malone (Terry Kinney) travels to a remote military base in order to check for toxic materials, he brings his family along for the ride. After arriving at the base, his teenage daughter Marti (Gabrielle Anwar) befriends Jean Platt (Christine Elise), the daughter of the base's commander, General Platt (R. Lee Ermey). When people at the base begin acting strangely, Marti becomes convinced that they are slowly being replaced by plant-like aliens. In the near future, a weary Logan (Hugh Jackman) — formally the Wolverine — cares for an ailing Professor X (Patrick Stewart) at a remote outpost on the Mexican border. His plan to hide from the outside world gets upended when he meets a young mutant (Dafne Keen) who is very much like him. Logan must now protect the girl and battle the dark forces that want to capture her. In this satirical comedy-horror movie, an unlikely trio played by John Boyega, Teyonah Parris, and Jamie Foxx uncover a nefarious government conspiracy: they're cloning and replacing the Black people in their neighborhood. The question they must answer, as they move to save their town, is why.