Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » The great outdoors: Get your backyard entertainment ready Planning a staycation this summer? Why not add some pizzazz to your outdoor entertainment area with these  easy-to-do  tips?  The holidays are finally in sight and South Africans will be spending a lot of time outdoors soaking up the summer vibes. Why not add some pizzazz to your outdoor area and amp up the party?!  ALSO READ: Outdoor renovation: Shake up your outdoor entertainment area Long summer evenings are perfect for alfresco dining and outdoor entertainment. Luckily, there are quick and easy things you can do on a budget to create an outdoor entertainment area.  Orlando Luis, CEO of Brights Hardware, share some tips:  If you don’t have an outdoor entertainment space, choose an area close to the house (preferably in some shade if possible) or near the pool if you have one, and lay down some cement paving stones and/or stone chips.   Alternatively, you can pave the area with cobble stones or bricks laid in a crisscross or herringbone pattern – the internet and social media offer many DIY tutorials. If you already have a paved or concreted area outdoors that is slightly outdated, a quick lick of paint will give it a brand new look without too much fuss. A bit of paint, tape and a stencil can turn a weathered old cement slab or pavers into a beautiful surface – the perfect backdrop to your Summer parties and braai’s. Once you have the stage set for your new entertainment area, the next thing you want to do is provide some lighting. There are many solar options on the market that allow you to install instant lighting without needing to get in an electrician to do the wiring. Choose between solar lanterns, spotlights, downlighters, motion sensor lights, floating solar pool lights, garden lights and so many more. Perfect for this festive time of year is to string up solar fairy lights for some extra ambience. If you don’t have a tree, the lights can be strung on poles sunk into the ground on the edges of your entertainment area, or simply draped over pot plants. No entertainment area is complete without seating, and ideally a dining area for some alfresco meals. If you can, treat yourself to some new outdoor furniture to finish off your new space. If you prefer to be a part of the upcycling trend then hit the second-hand and junk shops and find tables and chairs that can be brought to life with a bit of sanding, varnishing and paint.  Paint will spruce up any old garden furniture or you can try your hand at building furniture yourself. Check out YouTube and Pinterest for tutorials.   Having some strategically placed pots planted up with variety of herbs, flowers, rose bushes, ornamental trees, or suitable bushes (whatever you personally prefer) will add a beautiful element to your newly created entertainment area. Rectangular shaped pots planted with sedges, bushes or climbing vines with trellis can easily serve as a privacy screen around your entertainment area.  Planters can be made from pallet wood or if you are daring, everyday household items like an old shower caddy or old colanders can make great hanging baskets.  Some fun upcycled elements, such as turning an old wooden window frame into a garden mirror can add the finishing touches to your outdoors area, and mirrors bring in extra light during the day, plus reflect candles and fairly lights beautifully at night – brightening up your patio area that much more and making it feel bigger.” Last, but not least, if you are able to, invest in a portable braai to go with your new entertainment area. There are so many kinds to choose from in different styles, sizes and formats: Wood burning, charcoal or gas, freestanding, table-top and more. ALSO READ: Outdoor entertaining 101: FAQs with your PIRB expert Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! The Daily Lotto is a lottery game that guarantees a jackpot every day. Are you South Africa’s next big winner? Good luck! Orlando Pirates legend Benedict Tso Vilakazi has warned that the Buccaneers’ CAF CL journey might end at Friday. Friends and family of Reeva Steenkamp are remembering her on another birthday since her murder by boyfriend Oscar Pistorius in 2013. Missed an episode of Skeem Saam? No problem! Watch the latest episode of your favourite South African soapie here! Betway Premiership side Kaizer Chiefs are not resting. Amakhosi have reportedly sent an offer to buy a striker target for this season. Marshall Dlamini, the EFF secretary-general, will be the party’s chief whip in the National Assembly, replacing Floyd Shivambu.  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.