Entertainment stocks rallied with the broader markets Tuesday after data showed inflation slowing down for the fifth straight month. Consumer prices rose 7.1% in November from a year ago, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics said Tuesday. That was down from 7.7% in October and a peak of 9.1% in June. It was the fifth straight monthly report to show that the four-decade high inflation is slowing down, and follows reports from late last week that gas prices have returned to the level seen a year ago. Also Read: How Disney+’s Ad Tier Can Pull the Company Out of a Fiscal Slump | Analysis While the government does not track the cost of entertainment in the basket of goods it tracks to produce the consumer price index, a tighter economy spells trouble for companies that do not produce essential goods, like groceries, which are still getting more expensive. Food prices rose 12% from a year ago, the report said. Housing costs also continued moving higher, though reports that track home and rental prices in real time indicate they are starting to drop, The Associated Press reported. Still, economists see the overall slowdown as a sign that things are improving, even though inflation is much higher than the 2% the Fed aims for. The positive report send stocks soaring, despite expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again on Wednesday for the seventh time this year, which will make loans from mortgages to credit cards more expensive. The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped over 425 points, or 1.3%, to 34,430. The S&P 500 gained over 2% to 4.07 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index added 2.9% to 11,469. Also Read: Netflix’s ‘1899’ Is Reigniting Demand for German Series – 2 Years After ‘Dark’ Ended | Charts Entertainment-linked tech stocks helped drive the gains. Apple shares added 3.5% to $149.56. Amazon shot up 5.3% to $95.37. Facebook and Instagram parent Meta Platforms leaped 7.1% to $122.88. YouTube parent Alphabet gained 5.6% to $121.11. Streaming giant Netflix gained 4.8% to $330.31, while The Walt Disney Company, which owns its namesake streaming service, 66% of Hulu and the ABC and ESPN networks, gained 2% to $96.58. HBO parent Warner Bros. Discovery gained 2.3% to $11.53. Fox Corp., parent of Fox News and the Fox TV network, rose 2.5% to $30.40. Paramount Global, parent of CBS, added 4.1% to $23.13. NBCUniversal parent Comcast rose 3% to $37.53. AMC Networks added 3.8% to $19.41. Stocks favored by day traders saw some of the biggest gains, as is typical. Roku shotup 10% to $56.75. Lions Gate Entertainment added 8.9% to $6.44. Also Read: How the Feds May Have Just Handed Netflix Over to Comcast | PRO Insight New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.