A Monroe County-based real estate and property management company is under investigation for its business practices, authorities announced Wednesday. The Monroe County District Attorney’s Office said it’s investigating Michael Baxter & Associates Commercial Real Estate and Property Management, formerly located along Main Street in Stroudsburg. The company now is listed as being permanently closed and its phone number was disconnected Wednesday morning. Authorities are asking anyone who might have sustained a financial loss in dealing with Michael Baxter & Associates to come forward. The district attorney’s office said property transactions may have been scheduled to take place and did not. Victims, authorities said, may have lost money during a property management contract. Those with information are asked to call Detective Craig VanLouvender at Monroe County District Attorney’s Office/Criminal Investigation Division at 570-517-3152. Please subscribe now and support the local journalism YOU rely on and trust. Pamela Sroka-Holzmann may be reached at pholzmann@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices