Goldman Sachs analyst Susan Maklari maintained a Buy rating on Masco (MAS – Research Report) on July 27 and set a price target of $72.00. The company’s shares opened today at $61.49. Maklari covers the Real Estate sector, focusing on stocks such as DR Horton, KB Home, and Toll Brothers. According to TipRanks, Maklari has an average return of 1.9% and a 52.74% success rate on recommended stocks.  In addition to Goldman Sachs, Masco also received a Buy from Argus Research’s Chris Graja in a report issued today. However, on the same day, J.P. Morgan maintained a Hold rating on Masco (NYSE: MAS). See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  The company has a one-year high of $63.86  and a one-year low of $41.61. Currently, Masco has an average volume of 1.81M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 50 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of MAS in relation to earlier this year. Earlier this month, Keith Allman, the President & CEO of MAS sold 188,040.00 shares for a total of $11,237,270.40. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Masco Corp. engages in the design, manufacture, marketing and distribution of branded home improvement and building products. It operates through the following business segments: Plumbing Products and Decorative Architectural Products. The Plumbing Products segment includes faucets; plumbing fittings and valves; showerheads and hand showers; bathtubs and shower enclosures; toilets; spas, and exercise pools. The Decorative Architectural Products segment offers paints and coating products; and cabinet, door, window, and other hardware. The company was founded by Alex Manoogian in 1929 and is headquartered in Livonia, MI.  Read More on MAS: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks