Zero Trust is one of the most widely talked about cybersecurity trends
today. Zero Trust says no part of a computer and networking system
can be implicitly trusted, including the humans operating it.
Therefore, we must put measures in place to provide assurance that
the systems and their components are operating appropriately,
typically under a “least privilege” model and continuously verified. Creating an industry “north star” for Zero Trust has huge
implications in raising the cybersecurity baseline across the board
and eliminating significant systemic risk. CSA's mission is to
create research, training, professional credentialing and provide
an online center for additional curated Zero Trust resources. These
tools will enable enterprises to understand and implement Zero
Trust principles into business planning, enterprise architectures
and technology deployments. With the release of the Certificate of Competence in Zero Trust (CCZT), based on CSA’s Zero Trust Training (ZTT), CSA delivers the first authoritative, vendor-neutral Zero
Trust training and certificate that provides the knowledge needed
to understand the core concepts of Zero Trust. Using CSA’s agile programs for research, training and
certification, as well as our global footprint of industry experts,
chapters, webinars and conferences, we are uniquely positioned to
build and evangelize authoritative Zero Trust best practices and
tools. If you're interested in learning more, you can read the press release or contact us at [email protected].  May 6, 2024  April 26, 2024  April 24, 2024  November 14, 2023 View all announcements  If you are looking for a way to participate as an
individual you can contribute to our working group. We collaborate to
develop research and guidance to help validate and protect the devices
and connections on a network. Interested in getting involved? You can sign up for our upcoming
newsletter and find out more info around participating by emailing [email protected]. When the pandemic happened, you moved a billion people away
from their physical networks, from their office network and
you put them at random places at home from a network
perspective. That broke the inertia of, "Oh, we can really
ride the wave of all these rules built around the traditional
network.” Legacy thinking gets thrown out the window. In a
cloud sense, you need to manage the endpoints and the
identity, and that's why Zero Trust is so relevant. This network security model has to be turned on its head.
The architecture needs to change. That's where the zero trust
is coming in. Trust no one. Based on identity, based on
device posture, based on other attributes, you connect the
right user to right application. That's really what has to be
done. In today’s mobile, work-from-anywhere world,
identity has become the new security perimeter.
According to the CrowdStrike 2022 Global Threat
Report, nearly 80 percent of breaches leverage
identity to compromise credentials and evade
detection in organizations’ networks. Organizations show their commitment to
building awareness and understanding of zero trust principles when they
become a Zero Trust Champion for CSA's Zero Trust Advancement Center.
Sponsoring ZTAC is a great opportunity to demonstrate your organization's
thought leadership in providing relevant security solutions for the
next generation of IT-cloud computing. Watch presentations by subject matter
experts as they explain how to implement zero trust. Access the content from CSA's network of
subject matter experts on zero trust. From papers to videos and
more. Created by CSA's partners at the Demo Forum, the Zero Trust Market Map
displays a comprehensive mapping of security technology products
related to zero trust. With the growth of cybersecurity, it is
important to see where the technology is today. The market map helps
provide an understanding of the current zero trust industry standing,
as vetted by analyst firms. This website uses third-party profiling cookies. By using
this website, you consent to the use of these cookies. Privacy Policy. © 2009–2024 Cloud Security Alliance.All rights reserved. © 2009–2024 Cloud Security Alliance.All rights reserved.