The crash took place between Cleveland Tontine and the Kirby Sigston which was closed for nine hours The A19 has re-opened following a serious crash involving a lorry.  The incident, which is believed to have taken place around 10.30am, closed the southbound carriageway between Cleveland Tontine and the Kirby Sigston turn-off.  The crash caused major traffic delays throughout the day with Highways England and North Yorkshire Police shutting the road off for almost nine hours, affecting rush-hour traffic.  Motorists were diverted around the route which was initially closed in both directions before the northbound carriageway was re-opened at around midday. Details of the diversions can be found here. Follow below for updates. North Yorkshire Police have confirmed that a man has died following the crash that closed the A19.  A spokesperson for the force said:  HGV driver dies in A19 collision on the outskirts of Northallerton: Witnesses and motorists with dash-cam footage urged to come forward to assist investigation  We're investigating a fatal collision after a heavy goods vehicle crashed off the A19 on the outskirts of Northallerton.  Emergency services, including ambulance, air ambulance, the fire service and ourselves, were alerted to the southbound carriageway - about one mile past the Osmotherley turn-off - at 10.30am today (Wednesday 1 February 2023). Despite the efforts to save the driver’s life, he sadly died at the scene at 11.27am.  The man’s family are being contacted about the tragic incident. The stretch of road remained closed until 7.40pm while collision investigators examined the scene and to allow the heavy goods vehicle to be safely recovered.  National Highways teams managed the diversions and cleared debris from the road.  Witnesses to the collision and motorists with dash-cam footage are urged to come forward to assist the investigation. We particularly need to hear from anyone who recalls seeing the heavy goods vehicle prior to the incident. If you can help, please make a report via the North Yorkshire Police website or by emailing the Major Collision Investigation Unit at mcit@northyorkshire.police.uk. Please quote the North Yorkshire Police reference number 12230019357 when providing details.  According to traffic site Inrix the A19 southbound carriageway has re-opened after being closed since around 10.30am this morning.  The site says: A19 Southbound re-opened, earlier accident investigation work between A172 (Cleveland Tontine, Cleveland Tontine) and A61 (South Kilvington, Thirsk)  Traffic website Inrix reports: A19 Southbound closed due to accident investigation work between A172 (Cleveland Tontine, Cleveland Tontine) and A61 (South Kilvington, Thirsk). Traffic is coping well. Incident occurred around 10:45am this morning where a lorry has left the road.  Traffic is coping well despite the incident however queues are still slow moving between Thornbrough and Osmotherley. The A19 southbound is closed following a serious collision involving an HGV about one mile from the Osmotherley junction. Police have said they expect the road to be closed for some time so plan ahead before hitting rush hour queues.  Traffic is staill said to be coping well. The full update from the AA currently reads: "Road closed due to crash investigation work on A19 Southbound between A172 (Cleveland Tontine) and The Kirby Sigston Turn Off. Incident occurred around 10:45 this morning where a lorry has left the road. Traffic is coping well." This picture from Teespix.Photos shows the scene of the crash. Details from the National Highways Agency North Yorkshire Police have confirmed that it is conducting collision investigations and that the southbound carriageway is likely to remain closed 'for some time'.  Traffic site Inrix, which was updated at 2.50pm, said: "A19 Southbound closed due to accident between A172 (Cleveland Tontine, Cleveland Tontine) and The Kirby Sigston Turn Off (Kirby Sigston). Traffic is coping well." A roughly 10-mile stretch of the road has been closed following the serious collision.  The southbound carriageway remains closed on the A19 although traffic on the route appears steady on the AA Traffic News map. However, there are "severe" delays of 24 minutes on the A684 Brompton Road Westbound between A19 and A167 Friarage Street due to diverted motorists. UPDATE - The #A19 is now closed southbound between the #A684 (#Northallerton) and #A61 (#SouthKilvington) following the serious collision. New diversion route can be found here:https://t.co/zcExPrtmIL pic.twitter.com/TlhcH4cjNH For those just joining us, here's what's happening: Highways England also had to close the nearby northbound carriageway after a skip wagon shed its load. Major traffic delays have been caused along the route with footage from the scene showing the traffic gridlock stretching past The Tontine. The Yorkshire Ambulance Service confirmed two ambulances, a rapid response vehicle, and an air ambulance were sent to the scene - but no details are currently known about those involved. Motorists have been diverted to Northallerton, with roads towards the town currently experiencing slow traffic.  The northbound carriageway re-opened just before 12pm but North Yorkshire Police said the southbound will remain closed "for some time." Read the full story of the incident so far HERE. Traffic is appearing to ease on the A19. However, the diverted traffic on roads towards Northallerton remains very slow in parts.  Here is what AA Traffic News is showing:  The #A19 has reopened northbound at #Northallerton. The southbound will remain closed for several hours between ##A172 (#ClevelandTontine) and #A684 for investigation work. Diversion details here:https://t.co/zcExPrtmIL pic.twitter.com/BY5Kf0TvkL Traffic site Inrix said: "A19 Southbound closed, queueing traffic due to accident between A19 (Cleveland Tontine, Cleveland Tontine) and The Kirby Sigston Turn Off (Kirby Sigston). Congestion to The surrounding areas including Northallerton and Brompton as people divert around the closure. Note change of direction." However, the northbound carriageway has re-opened.  A19 update The northbound carriageway has now reopened. The southbound will remain closed for some time. Please avoid the area if possible pic.twitter.com/Xl4iaiFJlv An eyewitness said traffic remains heavy in the area as motorists are diverted away from the incident. However, there is now movement on the southbound carriageway, which is down to one lane before being diverted off at Northallerton.  You can see an update on the traffic situation below. Please avoid the #A19 between #Ellerbeck and #ClevelandTontine. The road is currently closed due to an collision. https://t.co/VkAFgDjZBt A Yorkshire Ambulance Service spokesperson said: "We received a call at 10.29am to reports of a HGV that had gone onto a grass verge. We sent two ambulances, a rapid response vehicle and an air ambulance to the scene." An eyewitness told Teesside Live: "The traffic isn't that far back at the minute but it is at a complete standstill. Police are talking to lorry drivers and other motorists. They are not letting them move at all." Teesside Live has contacted the Yorkshire Ambulance Service and the North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service for further information.  Traffic is at a standstill along the major Teesside route. The footage shows the queues stretching past The Tontine, which is visible on the right.  Traffic is backed up to The Tontine. The #A19 is closed in both directions between #A684 (#Northallerton) and #A172 (#ClevelandTontine) due to a serious collision which has resulted in a lorry leaving the carriageway. Air Ambulance on scene. Diversion details to follow. pic.twitter.com/D1ywx0oak4 AA Traffic News shows how the A19 has been closed in two sections. You can see where from the image below.