We have teamed up with the National Trust to offer one lucky reader the chance to win a stay worth £1000, at one of their holiday cottages. Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Discover a range of over 530 cottages, of which more than half are dog friendly, across England, Wales and Northern Ireland, from historic manor houses and rustic farmhouses to lakefront cottages and even a lighthouse or two, to wake up somewhere idyllic, surrounded by nature.  Whether you are looking for an active getaway on some of the most breathtaking walk and cycle routes, or just want to cosy up for a winter break, there is a wide range of unique holiday cottages to choose from. Every year the National Trust restore and refurbish holiday cottages, bothies, bunkhouses and campsites across the country. You can find a last minute holiday somewhere special. From weekend adventures to mid-week breaks, you're sure to find somewhere unique to stay. Talke a look at National Trust holiday cottages here. To win a fantastic break with the National Trust all you have to do is fill in the form below: If you can't see the form CLICK HERE. Terms and Conditions: This competition closes at 23:59 on 17 September 2023. One winner will be selected at random from all entries on this form after the closing date and will be contacted by their chosen method of communication within 10 days to arrange dates. If we have not received any communication from the winner within 7 days from the notification email/call we will draw another winner OR failure to respond within 30 days will result in forfeiture of the prize. The prize is a National Trust Holidays voucher worth £1000. The holiday is subject to availability and does not include any extras. The prize is not transferable for cash. The winner will be able to pick from the available locations, found here https://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/holidays. No cash alternative or refund will be given, and winners must be over 18. Prize to be chosen from the current National Trust Holiday website and cannot be used to purchase National Trust gift cards or vouchers or redeemed against purchases already made. The prize is not valid for Historic House Hotels bookings or those managed by third parties. The competition is not open to employees and volunteers of the National Trust, their partners and their families. We recommend guests take out travel insurance after booking their holiday. The competition winner can use the prize as part payment towards a higher value holiday and pay the balance. The holiday must be booked and taken before August 31 2024 If the holiday booked is less than £1000 in value, the booking will still be deemed full settlement of the prize and any remaining value cannot be used towards a second break. If the value of the accommodation is more than £1,000, the winner can make up the difference by paying the deposit due on the holiday. The National Trust will not be responsible for any other transport or accommodation costs incurred in the acceptance or fulfilment of the prize. Standard terms and conditions of a holiday booking apply – see website for details: https://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/features/holiday-cottage-bunkhouse-and-bothy-terms-and-conditions  Terms and Conditions and neither the Promoter nor any provider of any part of the prize will be responsible for any such costs. The winner's contact details will only be used to ensure that prizes can be received. Entry to the competition is restricted to one entry per person please. Multiple entries will be disqualified. Automated entries, bulk entries or third party entries will be disqualified! This competition is open to UK residents only. Prizes can only be sent to a valid UK address. Entrants must be 18 or over. This competition is syndicated and will appear on the following sites: Belfast Live, Bedfordshire Live, Berkshire Live, Birmingham Live, Bristol Live, Buckinghamshire Live, Cambridgeshire Live, Cheshire Live, Chronicle Live, Cornwall Live, Coventry Live, Derbyshire Live, Devon Live, Dorset Live, Essex Live, Gloucestershire Live, Grimsby Live, Hampshire Live, Hertfordshire Live, Hull Live, Kent Live, Lancs Live, Leeds Live, Leicestershire Live, Lincolnshire Live, Liverpool ECHO, Manchester Evening News, MyLondon, North Wales Live, Northants Live, Norfolk Live, Nottinghamshire Live, Oxfordshire Live, Plymouth Live, Somerset Live, Staffordshire Live, StokeonTrent Live, Suffolk Live, Surrey Live, Sussex Live, Teesside Live, Wales Online, Wiltshire Live, Yorkshire Live - along with related Reach Plc newsletters. Entrants must be 18 or over. Standard competition rules apply, you can view these here. 