Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Some have been lost forever, but others are still going strong after decades of tantalising Teessiders' tastebuds  Everyone remembers their first truly great meal in a restaurant - the place where you had that really great steak or drop of house wine. Dining out is one of life's great joys.  And Teesside has had its fair share of fantastic restaurants over the years. Costs are creeping up, but back in the day you could get a three-course meal with wine and service at a top-notch restaurant for less than 30 quid. And you might well have paid for it by writing a cheque.  We've rounded up some of the best eateries from the nineties and noughties. The list is by no means exhaustive. Some might have fallen by the wayside, others are still going strong - but all will live on in the memory forever. READ MORE: A visit to the desirable village which some residents have called 'home' for over 90 years  A 17th Century coaching inn, the Dudley is of course still going strong - and will forever have a place in the hearts of Teessiders.  Roy 'Chubby' Brown counts it among his favourite places to eat locally. The Ingleby Greenhow pub's famous flowering onion went viral in 2019, with 73m hits online.  But locals have known about the delights of its signature dish for decades. People have loved the place for more than 50 years for its quirky, medieval-style surroundings.  The late Craig Staples opened his country pub with wife Bet.  He brought the flowering onion dish over from America to sell in the Dudley, after spotting it on a Chicago bar menu while at a catering exhibition. The family has extended the venue massively over the years and Craig's daughter Elizabeth runs it now.  She said in 2019: "It's nice when you sit back and think, compared to 50 years ago, there's an awful lot more restaurants around now. And we have lasted this long." Tucked away above Yarm institution Strickland & Holt was McCoy's, the atmospheric loft restaurant run by the McCoy brothers. It was the perfect place to meet up for a meal. And the food, of course, was always impeccable. Later it became the popular Italian Lucia's and the space is now the fantastic Strickies Creative hub, filled with work by designers, makers, antique dealers and retailers.  Before the incredibly successful Chadwick's of Maltby, owned by ex-boro player Garry Gill and his wife, there was Chadwick's in Yarm. One of the most popular eateries on the town's high street for years, customers used to queue to get in during the mid-90s. Owned by respected restaurateur Daryl Chadwick, who is still in the hospitality game today with Chadwick & Co, within Barker & Stonehouse stores including Teesside Park.  The continental cafe known for its fine dining opened in 1992 when Daryl was still in his 20s. It's now Muse, another fine restaurant at the top of its game. Back in the day, the Purple Onion and its legendary Cellar Bar was the place to be. Celebrities who dropped into the famous boro venue included Boy George, Vic and Bob. Entrepreneur John McCoy owned the building and his son Bruno opened the restaurant in 1995, with Bryan Robson doing the honours on opening night. The idea was to create something with a "New York and Parisian feel" to it.  Two years later, the Cellar Bar opened, with packed parties until the small hours.  The venue was also favourite with footballers - Ravanelli and Juninho were often spotted there and Stewart Downing even graced the decks in 2007. In 1999, The Purple Onion was named as one of the ten most fashionable spots in the North by Harpers and Queen plus Moet and Chandon. It later became La Pharmacie restaurant.  The Yarm restaurant developed a well-earned reputation for "great food and service" throughout the noughties. It was also Cafe 85 for some time, another go-to for Teesside's food scene of yesteryear.  Today most people know the venue as another popular eatery - Cena.   One regular diner back in the day said: "The Tontine had a fab atmosphere, the host Eugene always came and chatted.  "The food was very interesting and original, the decor, service - everything was fantastic. Everyone who was anyone went there.  "The Imperial in Darlington was a great Italian for the atmosphere, the service and the food. We could always be found at one of these two on a Friday night." Restaurateur Eugene McCoy ran the venue, to wide acclaim, for many years after taking it on during the 1970s. In 2013, local businessman Charles Tompkins and his wife Angela took over the venue and gave it a major facelift - developing the restaurant with family friend Raymond Blanc’s guidance. But way before that, The Tontine's reputation for fine dining stretched back to 1946 as Cameron Brewery's flagship Inn. Under the McCoys from 1976, it won the Egon Ronay restaurant of the year in 1979. Mr Tompkins sold to Provenance Inns in 2021, after which a £1m expansion plan was announced. The 'Tontine', near Potto, dates back to 1804 and started life as a resting place for travellers when the busy Yarm to Thirsk turnpike opened. READ NEXT: