Helping you make the most out of your money Helping you make the most out of your money  |Deputy editor Updated  March 18, 2024 Hundreds of millions of pounds has been forgotten in children’s savings accounts – amounting to an average of £1,911 per child, a report by the National Audit Office (NAO) has found. The money is sitting in child trust funds (CTFs) – accounts that were automatically opened by the government for children born between 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011.  The government paid more than £2 billion into CTFs for 6.3 million children born during the period. Children can access this money when they turn 18, but many have lost track of them. A separate issue with the scheme means many young people who are registered disabled have been left unable to access their accounts at the age of 18. Families must apply to the court of appeal to access this cash – which can take months, and in some cases years. In this article, we explain: Child Trust Funds or CTFs are tax-free savings accounts for children born between 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011. It was introduced under then-prime-minister Gordon Brown. The aim was to give all children a financial nest egg by the time they reached 18. The government paid in: These two vouchers were worth £500 in total (or £1,000 in total for low-income families).  The scheme was scrapped in 2011, and parents were later allowed to switch the CTFs into a junior ISA. Despite this, there are still about 6.3 million CTFs in existence. The average account has £1,911 in it, according to the NAO. There are three types of child trust fund:  Parents or guardians were sent a £250 voucher to set up a fund when their child was born. If you were a family on a low income, you would have received a £500 voucher.  Once opened, you could make additional contributions of up to £4,260 a year. Grandparents or other kind friends and relatives could also add to the account via standing order, direct debit or cheque.  Terminally ill children under the age of 18, are able to remove the money from their CTF early. Any money in the account, should they die, would pass to whoever is their beneficiary. You can take control of the fund when you reach the age of 16. At this age, you can also switch your CTF into a junior ISA, however you cannot touch or spend the money until you reach the age of 18. Assuming the CTF provider has the correct contact details for the saver, at 18, you will be contacted. Your options will be as follows: NOTE: If a provider does not offer an adult ISA, it will instead be transferred to an equivalent account, which keeps its tax-free status. CTFs will automatically be rolled over to tax-free savings accounts (which may pay a much lower rate of interest) if you don’t contact your provider with your choice before you turn 18. Tens of millions of pounds belonging to around 80,000 young people without capacity to make financial decisions could be locked in trust funds, a report suggests. If a child with a disability does not have the mental capacity to manage their money in a CTF, a parent or carer will need to apply to the Court of Protection to act as the child’s deputy. This process is lengthy, taking you at least six months. Ministry of Justice (MoJ) figures show only 15 accounts were accessed through the court process in 2021. A report by Renaissance Legal, a firm that supports families through the process, suggests there are more than 80,000 accounts that cannot be accessed without going through the Court of Protection. Until 1 December 2020, these court fees cost you in excess of £365, an amount that campaigners, including The Sunday Times, have successfully argued is costly, stressful and should be scrapped. As a result, families of disabled children trying to access savings held in CTFs can now save or reclaim £365 (or more). If you haven’t already paid court fees but expect to, you need to fill in a COP44A form and post it to Court of Protection. Fees to apply to the Court of Protection will then be waived. If you’ve already paid fees, you won’t be automatically refunded. You’ll need to fill in the same COP44A form and send it to the same address as above. The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) says it expects everyone who applies for a refund – however far back – to get their money back. There are thousands of beneficiaries, who are now aged over the age of 18, that are unaware they have a CTF – and therefore cannot access it, a report by the National Audit Office (NAO) has found. While the value of funds has risen dramatically, to an average of £1,911, 145,000 accounts remain forgotten. Some £394 million was, by April 2021, yet to be claimed in matured CTFs belonging to young adults who had reached the age of 18, the NAO said. The NAO said that part of the problem was that HM Revenue & Customs set up 1.7 million funds – 28% of all accounts – after parents failed to do so within the required 12 months using vouchers sent to them by the taxman. In other cases, parents moved and did not keep in touch with the CTF provider. The NAO also estimated that CTF providers – including banks and building societies – could be earning collectively up to £100 million per year through charges on accounts. If you think you might have a CTF, HMRC can help you find out. You will be asked a few personal details in order for them to track it down. Once you know where the account is held, you will be able to contact the provider and gain control of the account.  The Share Foundation, can also help you find a CTF if you spent time in care. The organisation claims it administers around 16,000 CTFs worth £1,884 for children in care. Remember that CTFs are rolled over to tax-free savings accounts if you don’t contact your provider with your choice before you turn 18. In May 2010, as part of austerity measures in the wake of the financial crisis, the CTF policy came to an end.  By January 2011, CTFs were replaced by junior ISAs. No. Money in a CTF will not affect your benefits or tax credits. If you have a CTF but have not turned 18 yet, it could be worth switching to a junior ISA. You can do it yourself if you are 16 or 17 – or if you’re younger, ask your parent or guardian to transfer it. First, check the value of your child’s trust fund and verify any exit charges. If you’re looking for an investment portfolio, choose a stocks and shares junior ISA.  Once you have decided where your child’s money will be transferred to, you will need to fill in a junior ISA form with your child’s details and information about the CTF.  If you’re opening a stocks and shares ISA, you will have to specify where you want the money invested. Once you have specified this, your new junior ISA provider will carry out the switch for you within 30 days. The CTF will then be closed. Find out more: “Why I switched my daughter’s child trust fund to a junior ISA” Some of the products promoted are from our affiliate partners from whom we receive compensation. While we aim to feature some of the best products available, we cannot review every product on the market. In this Money SOS, our mentors helps a grandfather save for his grandchildrens’ future. This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue. Alan Jones is disappointed with the child trust funds that he started for his two grandsons, Freddie and Charlie. The retired 76-year-old from Cambridgeshire, researched the options on behalf of his […] If you’re saving for your first home or retirement, a Lifetime Isa is a great way to get started. We list the providers with the best interest rates and investment platforms. Lifetime Isas (Lisas) are long-term investments – which is why if they’re used correctly they can accelerate your plans to join the property ladder […] Junior stocks and shares Isas offer long-term gains. We list some of the best and cheapest platforms to grow your wealth. If you’re using a junior Isa to plan for long-term gains, such as university or a future house deposit, then a stocks and shares version can give you the best opportunity to achieve your […] Times Money Mentor shows you how in September with its free four-week newsletter course. Sign up now for a richer retirement. When you subscribe, you will also receive our weekly newsletter. By entering your details, you agree these will be used according to our privacy policy. You can unsubscribe, although if you do you will stop receiving both newsletters. Look out for the first email on 3 September. You'll also receive our regular weekly round-up of money matters. Times Money Mentor shows you how in September with its free four-week newsletter course. Sign up now for a richer retirement. When you subscribe, you will also receive our weekly newsletter. By entering your details, you agree these will be used according to our privacy policy. You can unsubscribe, although if you do you will stop receiving both newsletters. Look out for the first email on 3 September. You'll also receive our regular weekly round-up of money matters. Times Money Mentor is a trading name of News Financial Services Limited, which is an appointed representative of Richdale Brokers & Financial Services Ltd which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (FRN: 992057). In this capacity we are permitted to act as a credit-broker, not a lender. We have taken reasonable steps to ensure that any information provided by Times Money Mentor is accurate at the time of publishing. We do not provide any personal advice on any matter. Should you wish to raise any issue or concern, please contact us via care@timesmoneymentor.co.uk Times Money Mentor has been created in conjunction by The Times and The Sunday Times with the aim of empowering our readers to make better financial decisions for themselves. We do this by giving you tools and information you need to understand the options available. We do not make, nor do we seek to make, any personal recommendations on any matter. Where we give providers or products a customer experience rating or a product rating, these are compiled against an objective criteria, using information which has been collected by our partners Defaqto and Savings Champion. In some cases, we may provide links where you may, if you choose, purchase a product from a regulated provider with whom we have a commercial relationship. If you do purchase a product using a link, we will receive a payment. This will help us to support the content of this website and to continue to invest in our award-winning journalism. News Financial Services Limited (Company Number 05891402) registered office 1 London Bridge Street. London SEl 9GF.