*Based on data provided by Consumer Intelligence Ltd, www.consumerintelligence.com (July '24). 51% of Confused.com car insurance customers could save £523.17
1Correct as of July 2024 You can compare car insurance quotes with us in 3 steps.  We’ll ask you for the usual details, car registration, address, mileage.  Whistle your way to saving… choose the policy that suits you.  You can wave goodbye to car insurance worries when you’ve just used Confused.com. The type of car insurance you need depends on the level of cover you want. Here are the 3 main types of car insurance policies:  This is the highest level of insurance cover and it's often the cheapest. It protects you from all sorts of accidents, from a little bump to your car catching fire, or even someone keying it. It also covers you if you accidentally damage someone else's property or if people get hurt in an accident you're involved in. 
Think of it as your ultimate peace of mind for your wheels, especially if your car's new or valuable. Just remember to check the details so you know exactly what's covered and if there's anything you need to pay if you make a claim. This is the highest level of insurance cover and it's often the cheapest. It protects you from all sorts of accidents, from a little bump to your car catching fire, or even someone keying it. It also covers you if you accidentally damage someone else's property or if people get hurt in an accident you're involved in.  Think of it as your ultimate peace of mind for your wheels, especially if your car's new or valuable. Just remember to check the details so you know exactly what's covered and if there's anything you need to pay if you make a claim.  Third-party fire and theft cover gives you solid protection without the bells and whistles. It covers you if your car damages someone else's property or causes injury to others in an accident where you're at fault. 
Plus, it covers if your car is stolen or damaged by fire. It's a good middle ground if you want essential cover but don't need all the extras. Always check the specifics to know exactly what's included and any excess you might have to pay if you need to claim. Third-party fire and theft cover gives you solid protection without the bells and whistles. It covers you if your car damages someone else's property or causes injury to others in an accident where you're at fault.  Plus, it covers if your car is stolen or damaged by fire. It's a good middle ground if you want essential cover but don't need all the extras. Always check the specifics to know exactly what's included and any excess you might have to pay if you need to claim.  Third-party is the basic level of protection you can get. It covers you if your car damages someone else's property or causes injury to others in an accident where you're at fault. It's straightforward and it's worth considering if you want to meet legal requirements without adding cover for your own car for damage or theft. 
Make sure to understand exactly what's covered and any excess you might have to pay if you need to make a claim. Third-party is the basic level of protection you can get. It covers you if your car damages someone else's property or causes injury to others in an accident where you're at fault. It's straightforward and it's worth considering if you want to meet legal requirements without adding cover for your own car for damage or theft.  Make sure to understand exactly what's covered and any excess you might have to pay if you need to make a claim. We'll send you reminders when your policy is due so you never miss the best time to compare. Alternatively, our app is a great way to keep track of your policies. We work closely with our insurance partners to get the best deals and exclusive discounts so you can save even more. It takes just 5 minutes to get a quote. It's even quicker if you've used us before. Log in to get started. Car insurance prices are high, but you can still find cheaper car insurance with these tips: Make sure your mileage is accurate. If you overestimate you could be paying more than you need to. If you underestimate you risk invalidating your policy. That's because you're only covered for the amount of miles you give when you're getting a quote. The average yearly mileage is around 6,600 miles(2). If you add an older, more experienced driver to your policy, your car insurance price could drop. That's because this type of driver is seen as low risk by insurers. But if you add someone who's younger and has less experience, your insurance price could go up.  According to our research, 18 days(2) before your insurance runs out is the best time to buy car insurance. But generally, it's cheaper to buy your insurance earlier as it suggests to insurers that you're more careful and organised. Make sure your job title accurately describes what you do. Some job titles have higher insurance prices than others. For example, air cabin crew pay £818(2) for their insurance and a police officer pays £616(2). Don't change your job title just to get cheaper insurance. You risk invalidating your policy. If you park in your driveway, your car insurance price is £300 cheaper than if you park on the road outside your house(2). If you haven't got a driveway or garage, there are other ways you can make your car more secure.  It's cheaper to pay for your insurance annually, rather than monthly. This is because insurers charge interest for spreading the costs. For more practical advice, read our tips on how to get cheap car insurance, or see the cheapest cars to insure. We create the most comprehensive car insurance report to highlight the trends in car insurance across the UK. According to our latest report, the average comprehensive insurance policy costs £882***.  But, this doesn't mean you'll pay exactly this amount. Insurers use a variety of rating factors to calculate your individual risk, which ultimately determines your price.
 Your age, along with lots of other factors like driving experience, and the car you drive will affect the price you pay. Younger drivers usually see higher prices. Whereas older groups with more experience see cheaper prices.
 Where you live can also affect your insurance price. If you live somewhere where there's a high number of insurance claims, you could pay more.
 So, consider this information as a guide. The best way to find out how much your insurance will cost is to get a quote. ***Confused.com price index for Q2 2024. 
 If you're looking to renew your car insurance, we guarantee to beat your renewal price (3). That means if you get a quote with us and can't find a cheaper price for a like-for-like car insurance policy, we'll pay you the difference, plus £20. Learn more about our beat your renewal offer. (3)Single annual policy only. T&Cs apply. Must be a like-for-like policy. "Car insurance prices have reached record highs in the last 12 months largely because of inflation increasing the prices of parts and labour. There's also ongoing supply chain issues which means delays to repairs. This all adds to the cost of claiming. The cost of living crisis has affected all of us and clearly motorists haven't escaped this."

"The Association of British Insurers (ABI) says there’s been an 18% year on year increase in motor insurance claims. This totalled over £2.5 billion in the second half of 2023 - the highest quarterly figure since 2013." We don't just compare standard car insurance, we also compare specialist policies for different types of drivers and cars:  Multi-car insurance lets you insure more than one car with a single policy. It can be a great option for households with multiple vehicles because it can help save money and time spent shopping around for quotes. 
Insurers often give discounts when you cover all your cars together. It also makes life easier with just one set of paperwork and payments to deal with. Plus, you can customise coverage for each car. And, having all cars renewing on the same date makes things simpler too! Multi-car insurance lets you insure more than one car with a single policy. It can be a great option for households with multiple vehicles because it can help save money and time spent shopping around for quotes.  Insurers often give discounts when you cover all your cars together. It also makes life easier with just one set of paperwork and payments to deal with. Plus, you can customise coverage for each car. And, having all cars renewing on the same date makes things simpler too!  Black box insurance, also known as telematics insurance, involves using an app or fitting a small device, (the black box), in your car. It's designed to monitor your driving habits. 
It's a good option for drivers looking to potentially lower their insurance costs based on how safely they drive. Plus, for new or younger drivers, it can be a more affordable way to get insured. Black box insurance, also known as telematics insurance, involves using an app or fitting a small device, (the black box), in your car. It's designed to monitor your driving habits.  It's a good option for drivers looking to potentially lower their insurance costs based on how safely they drive. Plus, for new or younger drivers, it can be a more affordable way to get insured.  Temporary car insurance offers flexibility and convenience. It's a good option when you need insurance for a short period, like borrowing a friend's car, driving a new car home from the garage, or taking a test-drive. 
It can be arranged quickly (get a quote in less than 2 minutes) with immediate cover that doesn’t affect any existing insurance policies. Temporary car insurance offers flexibility and convenience. It's a good option when you need insurance for a short period, like borrowing a friend's car, driving a new car home from the garage, or taking a test-drive.  It can be arranged quickly (get a quote in less than 2 minutes) with immediate cover that doesn’t affect any existing insurance policies. Yes, you need car insurance. It's a legal requirement. It covers the cost of repairing vehicles or property if they're damaged in an accident. Insurance also pays compensation if someone is injured or killed in a car accident. You don't need car insurance if your car is off the road and has a Statutory Off Road Notice or SORN.
 Your car insurance policy might not cover everything, even if it's comprehensive. So you could consider these upgrades: This pays for any legal action after an accident. For example, if you have an injury after an accident that wasn't your fault, your legal cover pays to take the other driver to court. It usually costs around £20-£30 to add it to your car insurance.
 With this upgrade, your insurer gives you a temporary courtesy car while yours is being repaired. You should have this until the garage has finished fixing your car. You might have this already if you've bought comprehensive car insurance.
 If your car breaks down, someone can rescue you with breakdown cover. The breakdown company might be able to fix your car at the roadside. If it can't fix the car, it can arrange for you to be towed home or to a nearby garage. This depends on the type of breakdown cover you have though, so check your policy wording carefully.
 If there's a chip or crack in your windscreen, or if it's completely shattered, you can cover the cost of repair or replacement with windscreen cover. This might be included if you have a comprehensive car insurance policy, so it's worth checking before you upgrade.
 If you have a serious injury or die because of a car accident, personal accident cover can help. It pays out if you're off work for a while and you're losing income because of an injury. It can also pay a lump sum to your family if you die. This might already be included in your policy, but it's best to check how much you're covered for on your policy documents. Don't just take our word for it. Watch our customers talk about their experience. Join them and get that happy feeling when you've just used Confused.com 
Confused.com car insurance scores a 4.5 out of 5 rating
based on 
179671 reviews as of 24/07/24.








  Electric car insurance works in the same way as standard car insurance. It has the same cover levels, you're just covered for extras like cables and batteries.  If you lease your car, you still need car insurance. When you get a quote, remember to list the company that you lease the car from as the registered keeper.  You'd get this type of policy if you drive your car as part of your job. A standard car insurance policy usually only covers for social use and commuting.  Classic cars might need a specialist policy. The type of policy depends on its value and other factors. **Single annual policy. New and former Paramount+ subscribers only who sign up at ParamountPlus.com. Subscription required. Auto-renews unless cancelled. 18+. Just Eat website account required, geographical exclusions apply. The year-round reward is provided by Greggs, and consists of one regular hot drink per month for a year, only available via the Confused.com app. T&Cs apply.  Over 50s car insurance is cover designed for drivers aged 50 and older. It offers tailored benefits and often cheaper prices based on their lower risk profile and driving experience.  Drivers with previous convictions can often find it hard to get insurance. It is possible to get cover if you have past driving offences or criminal convictions. The insurance is tailored to take into account past offences, and it gets you adequate cover.  Learner driver insurance provides temporary or annual cover for individuals learning to drive. It offers policies and benefits suited to their experience level. Social, SDP or fully comp? Car insurance policies come in a variety of flavours. Which one gives you the best blend of protection? Making sure you’re insured to drive doesn’t just protect you, it’s also a legal requirement. You buy car insurance never wanting to have an accident, but if it does happen here's what you will need to do. Lost your car keys? Here’s how you get a replacement set. When you get a quote, we’ll estimate the market value of your car based on averages of the make, model, and age. If you want a more accurate idea of your car’s value you can use our free car valuation tool. When you get quotes through our site, you’ll usually see ‘soft searches’ on your credit report. These are nothing to worry about. They’re only visible to you and don’t affect your credit rating. A ‘soft search’ is usually just used to confirm your identity. The only time you’ll see a ‘hard’ search is if you choose to pay for your car insurance monthly. This is because the insurer needs to check you can cover the payments of the contract, usually over 12 months. A no-claims bonus (NCB), or no-claims discount (NCD), is a discount you get from your car insurance company. You get it for each full year you drive without making a claim. The longer you go without making a claim, the bigger your discount becomes, as insurers see you as a lower-risk driver.
 On top of these savings, many insurers offer the option to protect your no-claims bonus. This means that even if you do have to make a claim, your NCB remains. You usually have to pay a bit extra for this protection, but it provides peace of mind and potentially saves you money in the future.
 NCB is usually only given to the main policy holder and not named drivers. Some insurers may offer named drivers who’ve not made a claim a discount if they choose to take out their own insurance policy. This is sometimes called a named driver no-claims discount.
 If you’ve built up a NCB driving a different type of vehicle, such as a motorbike or van, you may be able to transfer this to a car insurance policy. Not all insurers allow it though.
Whether you’re transferring an NCB from another vehicle or using an existing one for your car, your new insurance company might ask for proof of your NCB.  You can easily get this from your current or previous insurer. You're required to tell your insurance company about any accidents even if you decide against making a claim.
 1. Collect information
 Exchange details with any other drivers involved. Make notes and take pictures as evidence. If the police are involved, get a crime reference number from them.
 2. Contact your insurer
 Ideally you should contact them within 24 hours of the incident. Check your policy details for any time limits for claims.
 3. Provide information
 Tell the insurer what happened, describe the damage and supply the images you took.
 4. Discuss costs
 Find out how much you need to pay for your excess and what your insurer will cover.
 5. Complete forms and documents
 Your insurer will help you through the process, and provide any forms that need to be completed.
 6. Pay your excess
 Your claim won't be settled until you pay your agreed excess.
 For more information see our guide on how to make a claim.
 You might be able to drive someone else’s car if you have a comprehensive car insurance policy. Check your certificate of motor insurance which should tell you whether your policy has the Driving Other Cars (DOC) feature. Not all policies offer it.  Even if you have it, it only entitles you to third-party cover on someone else’s car and should only be used in emergencies. If you want to be fully covered for a short time, consider a temporary car insurance policy, or get yourself added as a named driver. Yes, you can add named drivers to your car insurance policy. To add another driver, you’ll need their: Depending on the driver, this might raise or lower your car insurance costs. It's important to remember that the person who does the bulk of the driving should be listed as the main driver. And any named drivers only use the car occasionally. In an effort to treat customers fairly, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has created rules that stop insurance companies from penalising loyal customers. This was a practice known as price walking. The rules state that insurers are required to offer customers who renew their policy a price that's not higher than if they were a new customer buying in the same way. The FCA believes this should save customers £4.2 billion over the next decade. This doesn't mean that your renewal price is going to be less than last year. A range of factors come into how car insurance prices are calculated, but you shouldn't be penalised by staying with your existing insurer. But there still might be savings to be had. Even if your price is the same or a bit cheaper than last year, it's always worth shopping around. Page last reviewed: 17 July 2024 Reviewed by: Louise Thomas How we make money 
Depending on the product or service you choose we'll get a variable or fixed fee from our partners. Whatever you do on our site, it's always free for you to use.
 
The amount we receive has no bearing on the prices you pay or the order of your results. The companies offering these products or services also don't - and legally can't - inflate prices based on how much they pay us.
 If you've got an opinion, we want to hear it Our customer research community was created to gather your thoughts on Confused.com. It’s packed with forums, quick polls, and focus groups, and by taking part in the research, you could win prizes or even get paid. Part of a family of brands Empowering people to make confident financial decisions. Services you can trust Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Our customers say Excellent 
Confused.com scores a 4.3 out of 5 rating based on 7135 reviews
as of 17/04/2024
 © Copyright 2008 - 2024 Confused.com. All rights reserved. An RVU Company 
Confused.com, 2nd Floor, Greyfriars House, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, CF10 3AL, United Kingdom

Confused.com is a trading name of Inspop.com Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Firm reference no. 310635)
 Download our app to help manage your car dates, running costs and insurance Save money and get organised with our app. Never miss a date with insurance, tax & MOT reminders. Plus get a quick quote in just a few taps. Scan the QR code to get started. 
We use cookies, some of which are essential to make our website work. For us to use our non-essential cookies, we need your consent. You can consent by accepting all or alternatively, manage your cookies at any time. For more information, read our
cookie policy.
 Non-essential cookies allow us to enhance your customer experience through testing and personalisation. They also allow us to present you with tailored advertising on social media.