Open menu OneFootball's home page Search Settings Sign In In partnership with Valencia CF ·13 July 2023 Valencia CF The latest CIES Football Observatory study highlights the performance of the Valencia CF midfielder. The CIES Football Observatory has drawn up a new ranking of footballers in which Valencia CF is once again a protagonist. Specifically, André Almeida has been included among the players on the list with completed passes by LaLiga players who played more than 1,000 minutes in the 22-23 season. The ranking is made of LaLiga players with the best passing records last season, based on their effectiveness during the ninety minutes of game play. In this case, taking into account that only players who played more than 1,000 minutes were analyzed, André Almeida slipped into the Top 10 thanks to his performance with Valencia CF, reaching a coefficient of 1.95. The Portuguese midfielder shares the top positions of the ranking with players such as Rodrigo de Paul (Atlético de Madrid), Pedri González (FC Barcelona) or Sergi Darder (RCD Espanyol) and surpasses, for example, Luka Modric (Real Madrid CF) who occupies the 23rd place. Barcelona trio reflect on debut against Valencia – ‘Dream come true’ Barca Universal Fiorentina request improved bid from Juventus for Nico Gonzalez Get Italian Football News Valencia offer latest Giorgi Mamardashvili UPDATE as Liverpool MUST avoid transfer repeat Anfield Watch Three La Liga sides interested in Aston Villa defender as transfer dominoes comes into play Football Espana Barcelona consider offering an extension to 22-year-old starlet after debut vs Valencia Barca Universal 3️⃣ things we learned as Vardy resurgence earns Leicester draw with Spurs Leicester fought back to draw 1-1 with Tottenham at the King Power Stadium on another iconic night for Jamie Vardy.

Here is what we made of events at the King Power... Chelsea agree Joao Felix return with Conor Gallagher to complete Atletico Madrid move Portuguese forward to clinch unlikely Stamford Bridge comeback after deal for team-mate Samu Omorodion collapsedChelsea are closing in on the signing of Joao Felix, in a deal that will pave... Jude Bellingham scolds new teammate Kylian Mbappe and Real Madrid forwards: ‘Finish the attack’ Jude Bellingham appeared to issue an expletive-laden message to his teammates during Real Madrid’s draw with Mallorca.

The defending La Liga champions were expected to cruise to victory after adding Kylian... In partnership with OneFootball is proud to partner with Yahoo! Sports to deliver quality football content to fans in USA and Canada. OneFootball's home page © 2024 OneFootball