A Saturday morning at the Lancaster Central Market in downtown Lancaster pictured in July 2015.
File photo by Mark Pynes | mpynes@pennlive.com Pennsylvania has a big presence in USA Today’s Top10 poll for the best public markets. Three indoor markets operating in the state - Easton Public Market in Easton, Lancaster Central Market in Lancaster and Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia - are listed among the top 20 nominees. USA Today is narrowing the field of historic markets to the 10 best. The initial 20 nominees were selected by a panel of experts. Readers can vote for their favorite through July 3. Other nominees include Pike Place Market in Seattle, Boston Public Market and Findlay Market in Cincinnati. USA Today said the Easton Public Market is an outgrowth of Easton Farmers’ Market, the oldest, continuous open-air market in the United States. It features a demonstration kitchen and community room, along with artisanal food vendors. As for Lancaster’s Central Market, it is the longest continuously operating indoor market in the country and dates to 1730. “Locals love that its open three days per week to snag fresh fixings to cook at home or a yummy bite to eat from more than 65 local vendors,” USA Today wrote. Of course, Reading Terminal Market is well-known among locals and tourists for everything from cheesesteaks and sushi to crepes and soft pretzels. It has operated for more than 130 years. READ MORE: If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices