The Windows Club TheWindowsClub covers authentic Windows 11, Windows 10 tips, tutorials, how-to's, features, freeware. Created by Anand Khanse, MVP. If the Alt+Tab keyboard combination freezes your Windows computer, then this post may help. The Alt+Tab key combination is a feature in Windows devices that allows multitasking and quick navigation between open applications. When pressing this key combination, a graphical overlay known as the Alt+Tab Switcher or Task Switcher appears on your screen. But recently, some users have complained that Alt+Tab freezes on Windows computers. Fortunately, you can follow some simple suggestions to fix the error.  To fix the Alt+Tab freezing issue on Windows devices, restart your PC and update Windows OS. If that doesn’t help, follow these suggestions: Now let’s see these in detail.  The Windows Memory Diagnostic tool is a utility that identifies memory errors. Running this tool can help memory issues due to which the Alt + Tab freezes. Here’s how you can run it:  Allowing Windows to manage Virtual Memory will specify the initial and maximum size of the paging file for each drive on your computer. If this feature is disabled, there is a risk of insufficient virtual memory and wasted disk space. Enable this feature and see if the Alt+Tab freezing issue is resolved. Here’s how:  Next, enable hardware-accelerated GPU scheduling. Doing so will reduce latency, increase system performance, and may fix the Alt+Tab freezes on Windows computer errors. Here’s how:  Outdated and corrupted system files are another reason the Alt+Tab screen freezes. If so, you must run SFC and DISM scans to fix it. Here’s how you can do it:  Next, try getting back to the old Alt + Tab system. Doing so can helpissue fix the Alt+Tab freezing error. Here’s how:  If the Alt + tab freezing error occurs after updating Windows, the installed update file might be corrupted. Uninstall the update and see if the error’s fixed. Here’s how:  If none of these methods could help you, use the Reset This PC option. Read: Keyboard Tab Key not working on Windows PC If ALT TAB is not working properly and your Windows computer is not responding to the Alt+Tab keyboard, check your device’s memory usage and see for any software conflicts. If that doesn’t help, allow Windows to manage Virtual Memory and modify default graphics settings automatically. The Alt + Tab key combination can make games crash due to graphics driver issues and software conflicts. However, it can also occur due to memory issues. Published on August 20, 2023Tags: Hotkeys, Keyboard Shubham is a graduate in Information Technology who likes to write about Windows Troubleshooting as well as Gaming Tips. He's always engaged with new tech and gadgets. When not writing, he enjoys reading books, watching movies, and exploring new technologies.   July 25, 2024 July 18, 2024 August 13, 2024 August 9, 2024    Copyright © 2024 The Windows Club