 Artificial intelligence is changing software development in ways large and small. While many companies race to roll out AI-enabled features, the potential for AI goes beyond the feature level. Rather, AI will become the foundation for most—if not all—SaaS solutions. Machine learning and AI models will allow SaaS technologies to continually drive new efficiencies across a variety of business processes. AI should be seen as the foundation for a new way of development. Software delivery will become a utility. The grunt work that exacted a high tax for incremental value will just happen, and the backlog of high-value additions and innovation will surge into production. Humans will not get replaced. Rather, you will see the greater potential of software developers unleashed. With AI at the core of platform (and SaaS) development, you’ll start to see “design thinking” evolve into “platform thinking.” Exploration and learning will be essential in a world of AI-powered technology. Rather than outcome-oriented, software design will become goal-oriented. Using AI, development teams will be able to: Because AI enables professionals of all skill sets to design, deliver, and improve both processes and technology, platform thinking will become ingrained across entire businesses. The end result will be empowering every employee in the enterprise to bring ideas to reality very rapidly. As AI becomes an essential part of software development (and ultimately business processes), team structure and skill sets will need to evolve. The AI engine, which will appear in many forms (platform suggestions, companion bots, analytics and reporting), will become an active part of the software delivery team. Although agile methodology has been praised as widely adopted, few businesses have truly achieved continuous delivery. With AI serving as an extension of your software delivery teams, true agile will be made possible. Intelligent automation will enable teams to deliver changes at a continuous flow. What forms will this intelligent automation take? Design systems will be dynamically created and implemented as bots build underlying code. Self-built POCs will enable full feature testing from the outset. Built-in and evolving test automation will ensure quality and rapidly increase velocity. Companies will need to consider the role AI will play in platform engineering and be one step ahead. As this new way of development emerges, so will new job opportunities.  Ultimately, with AI as the foundation of SaaS, the day-to-day work of software builders will fundamentally change. Continuous testing will be the deciding factor in a world of AI-driven software development and will determine which businesses thrive and which will fall behind in this new pace of work. Sanjay Gidwani is COO of Copado. — New Tech Forum provides a venue to explore and discuss emerging enterprise technology in unprecedented depth and breadth. The selection is subjective, based on our pick of the technologies we believe to be important and of greatest interest to InfoWorld readers. InfoWorld does not accept marketing collateral for publication and reserves the right to edit all contributed content. Send all inquiries to newtechforum@infoworld.com.