The Windows Club TheWindowsClub covers authentic Windows 11, Windows 10 tips, tutorials, how-to's, features, freeware. Created by Anand Khanse, MVP. If Intel Rapid Storage Technology is crashing your Windows 11/10 computer, this post will help you. For supported Intel chipsets, Intel’s Rapid Storage Technology (RST) firmware offers RAID functionality and management. This tool enables users to create a RAID array using SATA and SAS hard drives to improve data management by merging the various hard drives into a single, more sizable virtual drive. The Smart Response Technology component of Intel RST also enables faster access to frequently used data by using a small solid-state drive as a cache for a larger hard drive.  Intel Rapid Storage Technology generally improves the performance of any Windows PC that it is being used on, however, some users have complained that after installing the Intel Rapid Storage Technology driver during a Windows update, their PC started exhibiting BSoD, freezing, and crashing. Although we are unsure of the precise cause of this driver’s computer crash, we believe it may result from an outdated driver or other software issues on your computer. Hence, we have come up with some of the best solutions you may apply to fix the issue and return your computer to working order. If Intel Rapid Storage Technology is crashing your Windows computer, here are some working solutions to help you resolve this issue: Before you begin, you might want to check for updates and install them – including Optional Updates – if any are offered. Your system’s Intel Rapid Storage Technology driver can be out-of-date or faulty, and as a result, it’s causing Windows crashes. In this case, updating your computer’s RST driver should help to fix the issue. Here is how to update the Intel Rapid Storage Technology driver: After the installation, you can restart your computer and see if the issue has been fixed. Read: Intel Rapid Storage Technology platform is not supported  It’s also possible that your computer’s RST system file may be corrupted or damaged, which will cause problems with the driver’s functioning and, ultimately, crashes on your PC. However, by following the instructions below, you can fix corrupted or damaged system files using the command prompt: Now, you should restart your computer and see if the issue has been fixed. Read: Intel Rapid Storage Technology Service not working  Intel Rapid Storage Technology service is necessary for the better performance of SSDs and our PC. Without it, the storage management may degrade the overall performance of your PC. But if the issue still persists, you might want to consider uninstalling Intel Rapid Storage Technology and replace it with the Standard SATA AHCI Controller by following the steps below: This method will replace Intel Rapid Storage Technology and fix the issue you are facing. However, you should restart your computer after completing the steps. Read: Intel Rapid Storage Technology Driver not installing  If your computer had a restore point set up before this problem began, you can use it to return to that state and resolve the issue. Going back to that earlier point will only be advised for individuals with nothing to lose. To use a restore point on Windows PC: Read: Fix iaStorAVC.sys Blue Screen on Windows This is actually dependent on your computer configurations and usage. As previously stated, Intel Rapid Storage Technology is a program that helps improve storage performance using the RAID capability built into Intel chipsets. Hence, if your chipset has RAID or you are using multiple hard drives, you can use IRST to improve the performance of your computer. If not, there will be no use for Intel Rapid Storage Technology. You can turn off Intel Rapid Storage Technology on your Windows computer by uninstalling or disabling the Intel Rapid Storage Technology driver through Device Manager. You can also disable the Intel Rapid Storage Technology Service using the Services Manager. Published on February 3, 2023Tags: Intel A tech junkie, and music fan, Luqman loves writing How-to's and Explainer articles related to Windows and other tech. If he is not on his laptop brainstorming ideas for content, you'll most probably see him watching TV shows or streaming videos on YouTube.   July 25, 2024 July 18, 2024 August 13, 2024 August 9, 2024    Copyright © 2024 The Windows Club