Canada’s women’s team wore purple shirts displaying the words “enough is enough” as a protest ahead of their SheBelieves Cup match against the United States. Last week the Olympic champions issued a statement complaining about the level of funding from Canada Soccer, with captain Christine Sinclair saying the team were going on strike over the matter. After that action was subsequently called off at the weekend, Canada players then donned the purple T-shirts prior to their 2-0 loss to the US in Florida, while players from both teams wore purple tape on their wrists. 🟰 pic.twitter.com/qsQVDzfjwL — CanadianSoccerPlayers (@PlayersCanadian) February 16, 2023 A statement from the Canadian Soccer Players’ Association (CSPA) said: “Tonight our players will be wearing purple as a symbol of protest. Purple has historically been associated with efforts to achieve gender equality. “Considering the current circumstances, our players will continue to wear purple until our association has standards in place that ensure equal treatment and opportunity.” Representatives of the CSPA and Canada Soccer met at the weekend to discuss the situation. The CSPA released a statement from the players saying that before the meeting “Canada Soccer told us that they consider our job action to be an unlawful strike” and that “if we did not return to work…they would not only take legal action to force us back to the pitch but would consider taking steps to collect what could be millions of dollars in damages”. It added: “We continue to believe that Canada Soccer’s cuts to the national team programs – especially right before our World Cup (which starts in July) – are unacceptable. We continue to believe that Canada Soccer needs to do more to support our programs and our players. “And we continue to believe that unless we stand up together and demand more, nothing will ever change.” Sinclair tweeted at the time: “To be clear. We are being forced back to work for the short term. This is not over. We will continue to fight for everything we deserve and we will win. The SheBelieves is being played in protest.” Canada Soccer has committed to negotiating a comprehensive collective agreement with both of the player associations of the women’s and men’s national teams Canada Soccer statement Canada Soccer said in a statement: “Canada Soccer has heard the women’s national team players and has committed to a path to addressing each of the demands made by the players. “But Canada Soccer knows that is not enough. There is still work to do. “Canada Soccer has committed to negotiating a comprehensive collective agreement with both of the player associations of the women’s and men’s national teams. “That agreement, once concluded, will be an historic deal that will deliver real change and pay equity in Canada Soccer. It is a goal worth getting right. “Canada Soccer has also seen the comments from the CSPA about ‘forcing’ the players back to work. Canada Soccer respects the players’ right to organise. To be clear. We are being forced back to work for the short term. This is not over. We will continue to fight for everything we deserve and we will win. The She Believes is being played in protest. https://t.co/1CmXU3CiYp — Christine Sinclair (@sincy12) February 12, 2023 “The players, while having taken job action, were not and are not in a legal strike position under Ontario labour law. “Canada Soccer was not prepared to jeopardise the SheBelieves Cup tournament, the preparation it would afford the women’s national team for the upcoming World Cup, nor the experience it would afford countless fans who had undoubtedly travelled to Orlando to see their national team heroes. “Canada Soccer therefore took the necessary steps to ensure that such games will be played as scheduled. Canada Soccer is heartened that the women’s national team players will play as it committed.” Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.