In a report released today, Kane Hannan from Goldman Sachs reiterated a Buy rating on Telstra Corporation Limited (TTRAF – Research Report). The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $2.82. Hannan covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Telstra Corporation Limited, Nextdc Limited, and Wisetech Global Ltd.. According to TipRanks, Hannan has an average return of 10.7% and a 56.34% success rate on recommended stocks.  Telstra Corporation Limited has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $3.09. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  TTRAF market cap is currently $33.07B and has a P/E ratio of 27.60.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Telstra Corp. Ltd. engages in the provision of telecommunications and information services for domestic and international customers. It operates through the following segments: Telstra Consumer and Small Business, Telstra Enterprise, Telstra Wholesale, Networks and IT, Telstra InfraCo and Others. The Telstra Consumer and Small Business segment comprises of telecommunication products, services, and solutions across mobiles, fixed and mobile broadband, telephony and play TV/IPTV, and digital content to consumer and small business customers in Australia. The Telstra Enterprise segment sells and contracts management for medium to large business and government customers in Australia and globally. The Networks and IT segment is responsible for the overall planning, design, engineering architecture and construction of Telstra networks, technology and information technology solutions. Telstra InfraCo segment is responsible for key network assets including data centres and exchanges, the copper and hybrid fibre coaxial networks, international subsea cables, poles, ducts and pipes. The Other segments include certain items of income and expense relating to multiple reportable segments that are recorded by its corporate areas. The company was founded in 1901 and is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia.  Read More on TTRAF: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks