GROTON, CT (WFSB) - A woman was killed and another person was seriously hurt during what police described as a crash in Groton over the summer. Scott Whipple, 25, of Mashantucket, turned himself in to Groton Police Headquarters on Thursday at 7:30 a.m. after police said he was found to be at fault. Whipple faces charges in connection with the crash that left his passenger, 24-year-old Tiara Wheeler of Norwich, dead. The incident happened on Aug. 28 just before 9:30 p.m. in the area of Long Hill Road and Meridian Street Extension. Police said they were called for a report of a multi-vehicle crash in the area. “Initial reports indicate that one of the occupants of one of the involved vehicles suffered fatal injuries and the other occupant of the same vehicle suffered serious physical injuries and was transported to Lawrence & Memorial Hospital,” Groton police said in a news release. Video showed a group of dirt bikers arriving and leaving the scene of the deadly crash. A dirt bike ridden by Whipple hit an Audi, the driver of which had been making a legal turn, according to police. Police said Wheeler was thrown from the dirt bike and hit the Audi, police said. She was pronounced dead at the scene. Groton police confirmed she was the daughter of former college basketball player Tyson Wheeler. Tyson Wheeler, a New London native, played for the University of Rhode Island from 1994 to 1998. He is currently an assistant head coach for Brown University. Whipple also hit the Audi and was taken to Lawrence and Memorial Hospital for serious injuries, police said. He was then airlifted to Yale New Haven Hospital. He has since recovered. “I saw them working on the person on the ground the one who passed away, they worked relentlessly to help them,” said Willo Carter, an eyewitness. “I just saw them doing compressions and I saw them drop their gloves, I knew when the ambulance pulled away that it wasn’t good.” Groton police Chief Louis Fusaro told Channel 3 that throughout the night, the dirt bike riders drove around town and egged on officers. Fusaro aid that that after the deadly crash happened, the group took the dirt bike involved and left the victims in the road. He said gatherings like that needed to end. “People that are operating recklessly, operating unregistered vehicles, dirt bikes, ATVs, all things that don’t belong on our roadway not only create a hazard to them but create a hazard to the rest of the public and the behavior needs to stop,” Fusaro said. The intersection was closed to motor vehicle traffic while the crash was investigated by Groton officers and detectives. Police said members of the Southeastern Connecticut Regional Traffic Unit also responded to the scene and assisted with the investigation. “Incidents in the recent past of large groups of presumably unregistered, maybe even stolen motorcycles, dirt bikes, ATVs, all traveling on local streets, operating recklessly and creating hazard not just to themselves but the rest of the public,” Fusaro said. Whipple was charged with second-degree manslaughter, first-degree reckless endangerment, misconduct with a motor vehicle, reckless driving, operating an unregistered motor vehicle, operating an uninsured vehicle, carrying a passenger on a motorcycle not so designed, and other violations. “It was preventable is what was going through my head. Pay attention to what you’re doing and you don’t have stuff like that happen,” Carter said. Police said more information will be released as it becomes available. “This is an ongoing investigation at this time,” police said. “We are asking anyone who may have witnessed this incident or who has other information which would assist officers with this case, to please call the Groton Police Department at 860-441-6712.” Copyright 2023 WFSB. All rights reserved.