Amanda Holden has taken a trip down memory lane, with her uncle sharing a sweet throwback childhood snap from her time in primary school for a special project Amanda Holden looks adorable in a sweet throwback snap from her time in primary school.   The star's uncle decided to take a trip down memory lane as he shared Amanda's school picture as part of a special project to help children dream big.   In the photo, the 52-year-old Britain's Got Talent judge can be seen posing in her red school uniform while grinning for the camera with a tooth-gapped smile.  Amanda, who attended Bishop's Waltham Junior School more than 40 years ago, had wavy blonde hair in the snap and freckles across her nose. The school's headteacher Darren Campbell reached out to Amanda for the picture so he could use it to teach pupils they can achieve anything. Amanda attended Bishop's Waltham Junior School when it was under a different name and was classmates with some of the current pupils parents. The media personality has gone on to become one of Britain's best loved TV stars and co-hosts the Heart Breakfast radio show. Amanda recently starred in comedy TV series Amanda & Alan's Italian Job, which she stars in alongside comedian Alan Carr.  Her throwback snap comes as the hosts were recently left with their hearts in their mouths after being pulled over by police in Italy while filming their BBC show.  The pals were in the middle of filming their renovation show when the incident occurred in Sicily. Alan was first to notice the police car's flashing lights with Amanda in the driving seat. He said: "Oh no, no what's this? We're pulled over, what does it mean?" "Are you joking? What am I doing? I'm being pulled over by the police. This is hilarious," a nervous Amanda replied. "I wasn't going too fast was I? What do I need to do?" As Amanda stepped out of the car, Alan joked that she would "end up on that show Banged Up Abroad". Following a short delay, Amanda returned to the car to explain that it was a random check by the officer. Alan said: "I can't believe that just happened, can you?" To which Amanda replied: "I feel like we've had the full Sicilian experience. The fact that I'd done nothing. I was so shocked." The Chatty Man host tried to the lighten the mood, saying: "He was really severe. My fantasy of being pulled over by a hunky Italian policeman... it is ruined it for me."  * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.  Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox