Pamela Anderson looked remarkably different in her pre-fame years and has released a series of throwback snaps as part of her upcoming Netflix documentary Pamela Anderson underwent a complete glamour transformation during her rise to fame, with fans now being treated to some unrecognisable throwback snaps.  The 55-year-old Baywatch star is the subject of an upcoming Netflix documentary — Pamela, A Love Story — which aims to tell her "real story" and features throwback pictures from her pre-fame days.  One still from the project shows the star as a teenager striking a playful pose with her tongue out. In the snap, Pamela had no makeup on and opted for a tousled look for her then-brunette locks. Another sweet picture shows Pamela planting a kiss on one of her sons when he was a baby. Pamela sported platinum blonde locks and heavy eye makeup in another picture as she smouldered for the camera in the 90s. Her new documentary will follow Pamela's rise to fame and will use footage from the star's personal archives. The film will also feature interviews with the actress as well as new images from her collection and notes from her journals. The official description of the project reads: "In her own words, through personal video and diaries, Pamela Anderson shares the story of her rise to fame, rocky romances and infamous sex tape scandal." Ryan White will direct the film while Pamela's son Brandon Thomas Lee will act as a producer alongside Jessica Hargrave and Julia Nottingham.  Pamela announced the documentary back in March by posting a handwritten note on Instagram.  She wrote: "My life. A thousand imperfections, a million misperceptions. Wicked, wild and lost. "Nothing to live up to - I can only surprise you - not a victim, but a survivor and alive to tell the real story." Brandon also shared the note to his Instagram Story, placing emphasis on portraying his mum's "real story". It comes after Pamela reportedly branded Hulu's Pam And Tommy "a joke and cheap knock-off". "Pamela has no intention of watching this God-awful show, absolutely not. Never...  "She's never heard of the actors playing her or Tommy and doesn't care to know them. She and her family think the show is a cheap knock-off," an insider told The Sun.  They added: "The whole thing is a joke to them." Follow Mirror Celebs on  Snapchat  ,  Instagram  ,  Twitter  and  Facebook  . Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox