THE SUDDEN BURST of cold weather isn't exactly what any of us want in March. But as the Met Office predicts more snow to fall over the next week, it's something we better prepare for. We're all looking for ways to keep our house warm without having to spend a fortune on heating bills. And home experts has revealed the three ways you can ensure your house stays warm. Do you want to know the best part? They're totally free. Speaking to the Express, a spokesperson from leading trades training firm Engineering Real Results revealed the top three jobs to complete to keep your home toasty. The first job was to make sure you bleed your radiators. They said: "Bleeding all of the radiators in your home can be a quick and easy way to maximise the heat they produce and ensure they are as energy efficient as possible. “This should be done once a year, even if you think they are working properly.  "It might be that your radiators are taking longer than usual to heat up, or that they are not as warm at the top as they should be.” Bleeding your radiators will prevent air bubbles from cropping up and allow them to heat up properly. To bleed the radiator, turn the central heating off and wait until the radiotors are cold. Then, place the bleed key into the valve and allow the air to escape, using an old cloth to trap any water. Another simple hack to keep your house well insulated is to make sure the curtains stay closed as well as doors. Experts at PlumbNation added: "This trick alone can reduce heat loss by up to 25 percent.  "Whereas closing doors to rooms that aren’t always in use can help retain heat in the areas you use frequently, and prevent heat from spreading and being wasted in rooms where you won’t feel the benefit." Finally, the experts revealed the one thing you should avoid when it comes to colder days - putting your laundry on the radiator. Not only will it stop the heat from circulating the room but it will also cause condensation which could cause mould and damp in the home. They said: "Over the course of this week, it’s recommended that you stop using your radiators to dry your clothes. “The clothes you place over the top of your radiators prevent the heat from escaping and heating your room, meaning that your boiler has to pick up the slack and work at a greater rate - increasing costs." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.