The map, created with Sloan Digital Sky Survey data, is the first to display the span of 200,000 galaxies with pinpoint accuracy. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 A new interactive map of the universe presents the entire span of the known cosmos in stunning detail and with pinpoint accuracy.  Astronomers created the map, which shows the positions and real colors of 200,000 galaxies, using two decades' worth of data collected by the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. The interactive map can be downloaded for free at mapoftheuniverse.net, allowing the public to access information that was previously available only to scientists.  "Growing up, I was very inspired by astronomy pictures, stars, nebulas and galaxies, and now it's our time to create a new type of picture to inspire people," Brice Ménard, a professor in the Johns Hopkins University Department of Physics and Astronomy and co-creator of the map, said in a statement. "Astrophysicists around the world have been analyzing this data for years, leading to thousands of scientific papers and discoveries." Related: 3D intergalactic map will reveal details about dark matter, black holes and stars  Despite this effort, nobody had taken the time to create a map that is beautiful, scientifically accurate and accessible to the lay public.  "Our goal here is to show everybody what the universe really looks like," Ménard said. The detailed map was possible thanks to the pioneering Sloan Digital Sky Survey, one of the most influential surveys in the history of astronomy. The survey is an ambitious effort to capture a huge proportion of the night sky through the 2.5-meter telescope at Apache Point Observatory in New Mexico. Every night for eight years, the telescope has aimed its 120-megapixel camera on 1.5 square degrees of the sky at a time — around eight times the area of the full moon — at slightly different locations, to capture a broad perspective of the universe. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Ménard and former Johns Hopkins computer science student Nikita Shtarkman used these data to recreate a slice of the universe containing 200,000 galaxies. Each dot on the map is a galaxy with billions of stars and planets. Our own galaxy, the Milky Way, is just one of these dots located at the very bottom of the map.  One notable aspect of this cosmic map is the striking colors that are in part created by the expansion of the universe. As the universe expands, the wavelengths of light traveling to Earth are stretched to redder regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The more distant a light source, the more extreme this redshift.  At the very top of the map is the universe's first light, emitted around 13.7 billion years ago, shortly after the Big Bang, as the universe expanded and cooled enough to allow electrons to form atoms with protons. The reduction of free electrons meant that photons — individual packets of light that act as both particles and waves — were suddenly not being infinitely bounced around and were instead free to travel. In an instant, the universe effectively went from being opaque to transparent. At the opposite end of the interactive map is the Milky Way, including the solar system and Earth as they exist today.   — Largest-ever map of 56,000 galaxies is demystifying the universe's expansion — New map of the universe unveils a stunning X-ray view of the cosmos — This 3D map of the Milky Way is the best view yet of our galaxy's warped, twisted shape  "In this map, we are just a speck at the very bottom, just one pixel," Ménard said. "And when I say 'we,' I mean our galaxy, the Milky Way, which has billions of stars and planets."  Ménard hopes that, in addition to displaying the universe in its full beauty, the interactive map will demonstrate the awe-inspiring scale of the universe.  "We are used to seeing astronomical pictures showing one galaxy here, one galaxy there, or perhaps a group of galaxies," he said. "But what this map shows is a very, very different scale. From this speck at the bottom, we are able to map out galaxies across the entire universe, and that says something about the power of science." Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom or on Facebook. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Robert Lea is a science journalist in the U.K. whose articles have been published in Physics World, New Scientist, Astronomy Magazine, All About Space, Newsweek and ZME Science. He also writes about science communication for Elsevier and the European Journal of Physics. Rob holds a bachelor of science degree in physics and astronomy from the U.K.’s Open University. Follow him on Twitter @sciencef1rst. Space pictures! See our space image of the day 'The last 12 months have broken records like never before': Earth exceeds 1.5 C warming every month for entire year Perseid meteor shower rains 'shooting stars' over Stonehenge in glorious astrophotography image Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 