HELEN Flanagan had a throwback to her 30th birthday where she had a hair transformation for the occasion. The 32-year-old star was digging out photos from the archives when she dug up pictures of her looking stunning with baby pink hair.  During a Q+A on Instagram with her fans, one follower asked for her favourite movie of all time.  "Harry Potter!!!" she responded. "Tried to find pics of my Harry Potter 30th and then found my pink 30th hair of dreams."  Inspired to find photos of her Harry Potter-themed 30th birthday party, she instead shared something different after finding pictures of her pink hair.  Posing in the pic, Helen is holding out her hair with a beaming smile in front of the hairdresser's sign.  This might serve as some inspiration for the star who is in full makeover mode at the moment as she embraces her new single life.  Splitting from longterm boyfriend Scott Sinclair in November 2019, Helen is looking onwards and upwards with home renovations and a brand new style.  Over the past month, she's shown off the results of getting lip fillers and also a new boob job to get more confident.  "It's just something that I did for myself, I really wanted to do it for my confidence," she said.  "I have been really nervous about sharing this. Obviously I very much am for body confidence, and very much for supporting other women, but supporting women in all choices that they decided to do. "I think if something really is bothering you, then I think, you know, it's a good thing to do something about it."   ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/