OU football begins its regular season with a home game against Arkansas State at 11 a.m. Saturday. Here's what you need to know about the Week 1 college football matchup. OU football from A to Z: Everything you need to know about the 2023 Oklahoma Sooners OU 42, Arkansas State 7 GROUND CONTROL Sooners RBs have big day, defense shuts down Red Wolves OU 48, Arkansas State 10 BUILT FORD TOUGH Trace Ford makes strong OU debut in win over Arkansas State OU 49, Arkansas State 19 PACK PUNCHED  Sooners slam Red Wolves in season opener OU football vs. Arkansas State: Broadcast info, betting line, matchup breakdown TV: ESPN (Cox 29/HD 720, Dish 140, DirecTV 206, U-verse 602/HD 1602) OU radio: KRXO-FM 107.7, KEBC-AM 1560 More: With OU football set for last dance in Big 12, how can Sooners head to SEC on high note? The crew of Roy Philpott (play-by-play), Roddy Jones (analyst) and Taylor McGregor (field reporter) have the call. After serving as the lead publisher for Fox Sports, Philpott joined ESPN as a play-by-play announcer in 2013. He calls college football, basketball and baseball games. Jones played running back for Georgia Tech from 2008-11. He joined ESPN in 2017 as a sideline reporter and is in his third season as a game analyst. McGregor graduated from Arkansas in 2015 and joined ESPN in 2019. In addition to being a college football and XFL sideline reporter for ESPN, she's also Marquee Sports Network's lead reporter for Chicago Cubs games through the MLB season. More: Ranking OU football's most important players for a Sooners turnaround in 2023? Forecast: Sunny; 95 degrees; Winds SE at 8 mph; 2% chance of rain More: What are OU football's best-case, worst-case scenarios for every game in 2023 season? Line: OU by 35.5. Over/Under: 58 More: How will Brent Venables, OU football fare in 2023 season? Here are our predictions This article originally appeared on Oklahoman: OU football vs Arkansas State: How to watch, score predictions, odds Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL.