
  An appeal has been launched to find a man who is wanted on recall to prison.
 
  On Friday (February 24), Greater Manchester Police (GMP) launched an appeal to locate a man named Sohail Aurangzeb.
 
  The 39-year-old is from Oldham and police are looking for him to return to prison.
 
  Aurangzeb is said to have links to Lees and the surrounding areas of Oldham.
 
  Anyone with information about Aurangzeb's whereabouts is asked to contact GMP on 07393 145 239.
 
  Alternatively, people can get in touch anonymously via the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
 
You can follow the Oldham Times on social media, by joining us on Facebook and Twitter
 
We also have dedicated Facebook groups on Crime & Court, Nostalgia and our Camera Club page
 
Don't miss the most important news stories every day by signing up to one of our free e-mail newsletters 
 
If you want the Oldham Times newspaper delivered to your door, get in touch with our home delivery team or call us on 0800 953 0227
 
Finally, have you got a story for us? If so, contact our newsdesk at editorial@theoldhamtimes.co.uk or by using our online contribution form 
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.