Popular flight tracking app Flighty, a 2023 Apple Design Award winner, is launching a new version that turns its handy flight information resource into something more akin to a private social network for close friends and family who want to track each others' travels. With today's launch of Flighty 3.0, users will have a new way of sharing their flight information with trusted others, without having to rely on forwarding airline confirmation emails or sending texts. Instead, Flighty is introducing the concept of "Flighty Friends," a way to track loved ones' flight details automatically. The concept builds on the friends' flights feature already available in previous versions of Flighty, which allowed users to share their live flight information with others through the app. Now, users can connect directly with one another in Flighty -- similar to how you would "friend" someone on a social network. Afterward, the connected users would receive updates about their family members' or friends' flights on an ongoing basis. The app's notifications would then read something like "mom has landed," instead of just noting a flight number has landed, and would include the user's profile photo. Image Credits: Flighty In addition, a new "Today" screen will show the flight locations of everyone you've added, if their flights are taking off within 24 hours. Flighty assures users their flight info is only visible to those they've shared with, but this won't include sensitive details, like a booking code. Plus, users can share their flight info with friends who don't have the app. Users can also disable sharing at any time. The feature, which is not a paid upgrade, makes the most sense for spouses or significant others, parents and children, and other close family members and friends as it provides real-time access to someone's location, not all that different from Apple's "Find My" or a location tracker, like Life360. But while location tracking apps are tied to someone's current GPS location, Flighty extends that tracking to the air, offering all the usual flight tracking information someone would need -- like flight plans, weather conditions, delays, FAA advisories and warnings, late or canceled aircraft, connection information and more. The app also makes clever use of Apple's live Lock Screen widgets and Live Activities in the Dynamic Island (the notch) on the iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max for Flighty subscribers. Paying customers can also take advantage of other features like calendar and TripIt sync, email forwarding and more detailed information, among other things. According to Flighty developer Ryan Jones, the app is the first to introduce this concept of a "flying private network," a first of its kind. But he hesitates to call it a social network, noting it's not about racking up follower counts or publicizing your information. Image Credits: Flighty "No other service has ever successfully built 'friends for flying,'" he says. "They all try to make it social and public. But that’s not what users want. They want to share with just a few friends and family, all privately, without signing up for a new service. We think people are going to love it," Jones adds. The app to date has been downloaded millions of times but doesn't disclose its user numbers or subscribers. However, Jones notes Flighty is a cash-flow positive and self-sustaining company. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.