Rail replacement buses will be in operation between Ipswich and Saxmundham while engineers replace over a mile of track There will be no direct trains between Ipswich and Lowestoft for ten days later this summer during major works to replace 'worn out' track. Network Rail says the track is up to 100 years old and needs to be replaced along with the ballast and sleepers which support the rails. Work will be carried out over consecutive days between Wednesday, August 16 and Friday, August 25. There will be no direct trains between Ipswich and Lowestoft throughout this period, with rail replacement buses operating between Ipswich and Saxmundham.  A bus replacement service will also run on Sunday, September. Network Rail says this will follow-up work to take place. Read next: Suffolk woman has one final shift at cinema where she last worked 67 years ago The work is taking place north of Martlesham, where work took place earlier this spring to widen a deteriorating embankment. This needed to be fixed before the track on top could be replaced. The old track has joints in between different sections, meaning that passing trains make the familiar 'clickety-clack' sound. The new rail is continuously welded, which Network Rail says will improve the ride quality for passengers and reduce noise.  At the same time as the track replacement in August, engineers will finish installing a new walkway for railway workers along the embankment.  Mark Walker, Network Rail Anglia route infrastructure engineer, said: "Having completed our stabilisation works on the Martlesham embankment in the spring, we’re now coming back to finish the job. This is a major track replacement project and we need an extended stretch of access to the railway to get it done.  "We’re sorry for the disruption that this will cause, but passengers can rest assured that we’ll be making the very most of the time to help deliver an East Suffolk Line that is fit for the future." Jamie Burles, Greater Anglia managing director, said: “This improvement work will help us maintain high levels of punctuality and reliability on the East Suffolk Line. With our new trains having raised service standards on this important route, this engineering work will help modernise the rail infrastructure and provide a more comfortable journey for passengers. “A rail replacement bus service will run while the work takes place, so customers can complete their journeys. We would like to thank customers for their patience while this work is carried out.” Read next The days forecast to be the warmest in Suffolk this half term The bizarre story of why three Suffolk cottages were turned into a fake church Barclays confirms closure of fourth Suffolk bank later this year Suffolk's richest person is worth £12bn, Sunday Times Rich List 2023 reveals 