Cloudy with occasional rain late. Low around 65F. Winds SSE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 80%..
                                 Cloudy with occasional rain late. Low around 65F. Winds SSE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 80%.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 5:43 pm Vermont Community Newspaper Group  Total reported incidents: 79 Traffic stops: 12 Warnings and tickets: 13 Medical emergencies: 20 Mental health incidents: 7 Suspicious incidents: 14 Domestic incidents: 1 Agency, citizen assists: 11 Motor vehicle complaints: 3 Car crash: 8 Animal problem: 2 Theft: 1 Trespassing: 2 Alarms: 3 Pending investigations: 1 Aug. 7 at 11:58 a.m., a retail theft was reported at Tractor Supply. Officers are investigating. Aug. 7 at 9:49 p.m., a homeowner called police after finding a suspicious item on the boat in their yard. Officers met with the homeowner and removed what turned out to be a GPS tracker. It was not clear whether the tracker belonged to the homeowner. Aug. 8 at 10:24 a.m., a Chesapeake Drive resident told police someone left their tires in a wooded area on his property, but that he was going to dispose of them himself. Aug. 8 at 3:18 p.m., police responded to a two-vehicle crash with some injuries on Shelburne Road. All patients refused transportation to the hospital. Aug. 8 at 5:43 p.m., a two-vehicle crash with no injuries was reported on Executive Drive. Aug. 8 at 6:05 p.m., police responded to a report of two women screaming at each other on Air Park Road. Officers mediated the dispute. Aug. 8 at 7:26 p.m., a two-vehicle crash with no injuries was reported on Shelburne Road. Aug. 9 at 5:33 a.m., police discovered a vehicle stolen from Burlington off Webster Lane near the tree line. Burlington police were notified, and the vehicle was removed. Aug. 9 at 6:18 p.m., a two-vehicle crash with no injuries was reported on Shelburne Road. Aug. 9 at 9:45 p.m., a two-vehicle crash with no injuries was reported on Shelburne and Marsett roads. Aug. 10 at 12:12 a.m., a resident told police her juvenile son had yet to return home after dropping him off at a friend’s staying at the T-Bird Motel. Police located the friend and learned the juvenile was in Burlington. Aug. 10 at 5:24 p.m., police responded to a call of a guest refusing to leave the Quality Inn and escorted them off the property. Aug. 11 at 12:55 p.m., a caller on Athletic Drive told police his car had been vandalized. Aug. 13 at 8:57 p.m., Shelburne police assisted the South Burlington Fire Department with a water rescue.     
Log In
 Keep it clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexual language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be proactive. Use the "Report" link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Local news is important. It's the information that will directly impact your life because it’s going on around you, every day. Join our group of dedicated readers today ... Plan a magical wedding day in Vermont, whether ablaze with fall color, capped with snow, or lush with the green of summer. If you're interested in learning more, click here. Social Media Advertising - Sponsored Local Content News, arts, events, community and more from the Vermont Community Newspaper Group. Our free weekly newsletters deliver the latest headlines, upcoming events and local information — straight from the newsroom! 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would you like to receive our Chittenden County news updates? Sign up today! Would you like to receive our Lamoille County news updates? Sign up today! Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: