News News | Mar 22, 2023  rerku@aspentimes.com A major retail chain specializing in agricultural goods and services, home improvement, livestock needs and more looks to plant a new seed in Rifle. Brentwood, Tennessee-based Tractor Supply Company, which currently operates more than 2,000 stores in 49 states — including in Glenwood Springs — has applied to build a 21,930 square-foot store in south Rifle. The store is proposed for two parcels south of Airport Road, in a light industrial zone just east of Walmart. Rifle City Council last Wednesday unanimously approved the proposed project to create a direct access way onto Airport Road. There is already an arterial road on the west side of the proposed site, but Tractor Supply representative Robert Wells said it’s a private road the company wants to avoid using. “Tractor Supply, they’re very particular in having a maintenance agreement with all the neighbors,” he said. “It’s going to be difficult to go and ask these neighbors, who have never had to go and spend money — especially when Tractor Supply is going to have a whole lot of large trucks coming in.” City Planning Director Patrick Waller said there’s an ordinance from when the land was turned into a subdivision in 1997 requiring every lot to use the western driveway to gain access to Airport Road — at that time County Road 346. City documents state that growth and development in the area was unknown at that time. “There was no certainty that Airport Road was going to develop,” Waller said. He added that it was a good idea to “limit access because of it.” The site itself is also on a flood plain, requiring Tractor Supply to raise the elevation of its project one foot above the base elevation of the ground. There was not much pushback from Council members, other than minor concerns over ensuing traffic if the project materializes. “I anticipate Airport Road getting busier,” Council member Sean Strode said. “Having reasonable entrances and exits to Airport Road for businesses is something to keep in mind.”  Waller said city staff does not have any major concerns for the proposed project. Tractor Supply has also submitted applications for a site review and building permit. Post Independent western Garfield County reporter and Assistant Editor Ray K. Erku can be reached at 612-423-5273 or rerku@postindependent.com.  
Aug 11, 2024
  
Aug 12, 2024
 
Aug 12, 2024
 
Aug 9, 2024
 
Aug 12, 2024
 Readers around Glenwood Springs and Garfield County make the Post Independent’s work possible. Your financial contribution supports our efforts to deliver quality, locally relevant journalism. Now more than ever, your support is critical to help us keep our community informed about the evolving coronavirus pandemic and the impact it is having locally. Every contribution, however large or small, will make a difference.
 Each donation will be used exclusively for the development and creation of increased news coverage. 
JOIN TEAM CMC: Elevating the Vitality of Our Beautiful Rocky Mountain Region! FULL-TIME OPENINGS: SPRING VALLEY - Facilities Maintenance Technician…
 
Join Our Dynamic Team at Lassiter Electric, TODAY! Are you ready to spark your career with an exciting opportunity in…
 
$40 - $48 per hour Full-time on-site position available in Aspen (with some travel) to provide professional driving services, maintain…
 
Assistant Food & Beverage Manager - Full Time Management Glenwood Springs, Glenwood Springs, CO, US Today Requisition ID: 2193 Apply…
 
WE ARE HIRING!  Visit us online for a full list of open positions: https://aspen.gov/183/Job-Opportunities Excellent Benefits Package! Paid Time Off…
 
We are looking for an experienced Chef/Sushi Chef who is looking for an opportunity to contribute to a creative fun…
 
Join Our Team as a Pool Maintenance Operator! Are you ready to dive into a rewarding career with a splash?…
 
Glenwood Hot Springs is hiring Part-Time Grill Cook I: $16 - $19 F&B Supervisor: $20 - $23 Grill Cook II…
 
We will be hosting open interviews August 1st from 11 AM - 5 PM at 308 S. Mill St. Aspen,…
 
Sales in a family orientated environment. Need to be reliable, responsible and customer care orientated. Education Level: High school education…
 Sign up for daily and breaking news headlines.
Manage Subscriptions    Nine out of 10 respondents in a recent Colorado Health Foundation survey rated the issue of housing affordability as an extreme or very serious problem. How do you feel about housing?  View Results 
Jobs
 
Classifieds
 
Autos
 
Real Estate
 
Rentals
 
Service Directory
 
Pets
 
Merchandise
 
Legals
 
Place Legal Ad
 
Search Legal Ads
 
Farm & Ranch
 
Recreation
 
Announcements
 
News
 
Contact Us
 
Become a Carrier
 
Submissions
 
Submit an Obituary
 
Archives
 
Newsletters
 
Commercial Print Sales
 
RSS
 
AP News
 
Post Independent E-Edition
 
Citizen Telegram E-Edition
 
Cookie List
 
Do not sell my personal information
 
Aspen-Snowmass
 
Breckenridge-Summit County
 
Craig-Moffat County
 
Park City-Utah
 
Steamboat Springs-Routt County
 
Vail-Eagle Valley
 
Winter Park-Granby-Grand County
 
Printing Press Jobs
 ©2005 - 2024 Swift Communications, Inc.