Wells Fargo analyst Zachary Fadem maintained a Buy rating on Tractor Supply (TSCO – Research Report) today and set a price target of $270.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $232.64. Fadem covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Tractor Supply, AutoZone, and Carvana Co. According to TipRanks, Fadem has an average return of 16.8% and a 64.69% success rate on recommended stocks.  Tractor Supply has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $250.16, a 7.53% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Piper Sandler also assigned a Buy rating to the stock with a $264.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on Tractor Supply’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending December 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $4.01 billion and a net profit of $270.87 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $3.32 billion and had a net profit of $221.34 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 73 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of TSCO in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Tractor Supply Co. engages in the retail sale of farm and ranch products. It operates retail farm & ranch stores and focuses on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. The firm operates the retail stores under the names: Tractor Supply Company, Del’s Feed & Farm Supply, and Petsense. Its product categories includes equine, livestock, pet, and small animal; hardware, truck, towing, and tool; heating, lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts, and toys; recreational clothing and footwear; and maintenance products for agricultural and rural use. The company was founded by Charles E. Schmidt, Sr. in 1938 and is headquartered in Brentwood, TN.  Read More on TSCO: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks