BRENTWOOD, Tenn. — Tractor Supply has announced that it has been recognized on Newsweek’s 2023 list of America’s Most Responsible Companies. The list, now in its fourth year of publication, highlights companies that “step up” when it comes to being an excellent corporate citizen. Tractor Supply was also featured as one of America’s Most Responsible Companies in 2022. “At Tractor Supply, our culture is deeply rooted in our Mission and Values. These principles underpin our longstanding commitment to being responsible stewards of Life Out Here,” said Hal Lawton, president and CEO at Tractor Supply Company. “We are proud of the investments we have made in our team and communities. We strongly believe that this commitment has enabled us to deliver long-term sustainable value to our shareholders. It is an honor to receive this recognition.” To create the Most Responsible Companies list, Newsweek, in conjunction with global research and data firm Statista, assessed publicly available key performance indicators derived from CSR and sustainability reports. The KPIs focused on company performance in the areas of environmental, social and corporate governance. Additionally, an independent survey was conducted to evaluate companies’ reputations by asking U.S. citizens about their perception of company activities related to corporate social responsibility. The final list recognizes the top 500 most responsible companies in the U.S., spanning 14 industries. White Paper: How to Stage Your Company for Sale Tractor Supply was ranked 213th out of 500 companies on this year’s list, and eighth within the retail sector. The retailer was previously ranked 244th and eighth, respectively. In 2021, Tractor Supply announced new, robust sustainability goals, including a commitment to achieve net zero emissions across all operations by 2040, as well as new diversity, equity and inclusion goals. To learn more about Tractor Supply’s stewardship initiatives and reporting, visit IR.TractorSupply.com/ESG. Get our free newsletter Join thousands of other lumber and building material industry leaders and keep up with the companies, people, products and issues shaping the industry. Become a digital partner ... Download this 55-page, in-depth study by LBM Journal of industry trends in sales force compensation and benefits. See how your organization stacks up. View all ... View all ... LBM Journal is the leading media company serving lumberyards, building material distributors, wholesalers, manufacturers, and service providers. Copyright© 2024 LBM Journal. All Rights Reserved. Registration is now open for the LBM Strategies 2024 Conference