Korean-Australian rap crew 1300 have released a new mixtape for Valentine’s Day, titled <3 (pronounced ‘less than three’). The mixtape lands just a few weeks after new single ‘Steve Jobs’, which featured a guest verse from rapper Kwame. The five-track release follows 1300’s debut album, Foreign Language, which dropped in 2022. It was a breakthrough release for the group and was recently named on the nine-album shortlist for the prestigious Australian Music Prize, alongside albums by Julia Jacklin, Camp Cope, Tasman Keith and more. The mixtape was pulled together in rapid fashion over Discord. “We were all very lonely at the time so we wrote a bunch of love songs,” 1300 said in a statement about <3. “Some of the beats were old instrumentals that Nerdie made a long time ago. On Discord, we made some new instrumentals and sent them to the boys back on Discord. Then they would send back their vocals and we produced them like that.” 1300 – made up of producers Nerdie and pokari.sweat and vocalists rako, goyo and DALI HART – had a very busy summer, performing sets at Spilt Milk, Falls Festival, Lost Paradise, and more. They’ve got a few more festival appearances coming up, including Golden Plains and Dream Machine in Bali. Shortlist Revealed for the 18th Australian Music Prize: Body Type, Tasman Keith, and More K-Rap Sydneysiders 1300 Release New Single ‘Steve Jobs’ feat. Kwame NGAIIRE, Tasman Keith And More Nominated FBi SMAC Awards The post 1300 Release Valentine’s Day Mixtape ‘<3' appeared first on Music Feeds. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.