In another volatile period driven by bearish financial news, the cryptocurrency market has faced another red week, with most projects registering meaningful losses in the last seven days, despite a few cryptocurrencies outperforming the vast majority with extraordinary gains. Notably, the Total Crypto Market Cap index by TradingView (CRYPTOCAP: TOTAL) registered $53 billion in losses (-5%) in the last seven days from press time, on October 13. Interestingly, Finbold gathered data from the market capitalization range over the top 10 largest cryptocurrencies, excluding stablecoins, finding noteworthy results. When measuring their highest to lowest market cap, these projects lost a total of $56.4 billion market cap. Bitcoin (BTC) had a higher market cap of around $550 billion at the beginning of the week, just to be valued at as low as $520 billion in its worst 7-day moment. This accrued $30 billion in losses to the market leader — or minus 5.45% in a week. The other top 9 cryptocurrencies, stablecoins excluded, had similar results. TRX, BTC, and BNB were, in order, the best performers during this week’s market crash. Meanwhile, SOL, MATIC, and TON were, in order, the worst, with higher losses, adjusted by their size. This evidences a capital migration to stablecoins and to projects in lower ranks, considering the difference among the total CRYPTOCAP index by TradingView with the top 10 performers excluding stablecoins. Particularly, Loom Network (LOOM) has surged by 500% in the last 30 days, with accumulated gains superior to 60% in this same analyzed week. Best Crypto Exchange for Intermediate Traders and Investors 
                Invest in 70+ cryptocurrencies and 3,000+ other assets including stocks and precious metals.
               
                0% commission on stocks - buy in bulk or just a fraction from as little as $10. Other fees apply. For more information, visit etoro.com/trading/fees.
               
                Copy top-performing traders in real time, automatically.
               
                eToro USA is registered with FINRA for securities trading.
               
                    By subscribing you agree with Finbold
                    T&C’s
                    & Privacy Policy
 Or copy link Create price alerts for stocks & crypto. Get started Get started  
              Copyright © 2024 Finbold.com. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service.
           
Disclaimer: The information on this website is for general informational and educational purposes only and does not constitute financial, legal, tax, or investment advice. This site does not make any financial promotions, and all content is strictly informational. By using this site, you agree to our full disclaimer and terms of use. For more information, please read our complete Global Disclaimer.
        