
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 Professor at the Nelson Mandela School of Public Governance , University of Cape Town
Carlos Lopes is an Honorary Professor at the Mandela School and current AU High Representative to support Member States in the negotiation of a new agreement with the European Union post-2020 and a member of the organization's Reform Team, led by Rwanda President Paul Kagame. Professor Lopes served as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. Prior to this, he was UN representative in Zimbabwe and Brazil, director for development policy at the UN Development Programme, Executive Director of UNITAR, Director of the United Nations System Staff College, former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan’s political director. He is a Visiting Professor at Sciences Po, Paris and serves in several Boards, including Geneva's Graduate Institute and Waterloo University in Canada.

 
Cautious welcome: World Bank and IMF return to Africa, but questions remain
 
                                Oct 06, 2023 02:24 am UTC|
Insights & Views Economy
 
                                The annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) are due to take place in Marrakech, Morocco, in mid-October. The city and country are still reeling from a devastating earthquake in early...                             Economy  
Thai Growth Quickens in Q2 as Tourism and Consumption Boost Economy: Reuters Poll
 
Hibiscus Petroleum Targets Asia-Pacific Acquisitions as Big Oil Divests Amid Decarbonization Push
 
Gold Surges Past $2,500 as Analysts Predict Further Gains Amid Fed Rate Cuts
 
U.K. Economy Shows Strong Growth Amid Lower Inflation and Rising Consumer Confidence
 
Oil Prices Rise Over 1% on Positive U.S. Economic Data and Geopolitical Tensions
 Politics  
Donald Trump Lashes Out Over Reports of Empty Seats at Pennsylvania Rally, Targets Kamala Harris in Fiery Rant
 
Donald Trump Targets Van Jones in Scathing Attack, Claims Credit for Criminal Justice Reform
 
Donald Trump Campaign in Disarray as Former President Searches for Scapegoat Amidst Falling Poll Numbers
 
Donald Trump Allies 'Unnerved' by His Attack on Georgia's Governor, Fearing Fallout in Key Swing State
 
Ex-Donald Trump Official Reveals 'Cringe' Remarks About Kamala Harris' Looks Amid Growing Tensions
 Science  
SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test
 
Samsung Leads the Race to Make CXL Memory the Next Big Thing in AI
 
Boeing and Lockheed Martin in Talks to Sell ULA to Sierra Space for Up to $3 Billion
 
NASA Administrator Speaks Out on Boeing Starliner Delay in Astronauts' Return from ISS
 
China Implements Strict Screenings Amid Global Mpox Concerns as Pakistan Reports First Case
 Technology	  
Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024
 
Will Bitcoin Break $86K in September? Analysts Point to a Potential Breakout
 
Panasonic to End Fluorescent Lamp Production by 2027, Marking an Era’s Close
 
U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report
 
Intel to Launch Arrow Lake-S 'Core Ultra 200' Desktop CPUs on October 10
 Digital Currency  

                                                                                Major crypto levels and bias summary                                                                            
 

                                                                                FxWirePro- BTCUSD Daily Outlook                                                                            
 

                                                                                Token unlock event this week                                                                            
 Law  

                                                                                Google’s Future in Jeopardy: Antitrust Breakup in Play as US Cracks Down on Monopoly                                                                            
 

                                                                                The World Court says Israel’s occupation of Palestinian land is illegal: 4 steps NZ can take now                                                                            
 

                                                                                Crypto Regulation Talks: Industry Execs, White House Officials Meet Amid Biden Administration's Uncertain Future                                                                            
 Life  

                                                                                Circle K Operator Alimentation Couche-Tard Bids to Acquire 7-Eleven's Japanese Owner                                                                            
 

                                                                                Popeyes Worker’s Chicken Seasoning TikTok Sparks Debate Over Hygiene and Preparation                                                                            
 

                                                                                Mark Gonzales’ adidas Aloha Super Lands in 'Burnt Sienna' as Gazelle Indoor Sports Halloween Colors                                                                            
 Nature  

                                                                                Good flooding? Scientists use rice cultivation to preserve soil in Florida’s Everglades Agricultural Area                                                                            
 

                                                                                Our lakes are teeming with parasites. Why that’s good…and bad                                                                            
 

                                                                                The Jasper fire highlights the risks climate change poses to Canada’s world heritage sites                                                                            
 Sports  

                                                                                The Paris Olympics horse-whipping scandal shows the dangers of ‘Disneyfication’ in horse sports                                                                            
 

                                                                                Thanks to Paris 2024, my kid wants to be an Olympian. What do I do now?                                                                            
 

                                                                                North Korea returns to the Olympics after eight years – eyeing more than just medals                                                                            
 Technical Analysis  

                                                                                FxWirePro: EUR/NZD weighed down as investors seek out riskier assets                                                                            
 

                                                                                FxWirePro:GBP/NZD downtrend extends ,eyes key support                                                                            
 

                                                                                FxWirePro:   GBP/AUD extends drop, faces 38.2%fib support                                                                            
  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 