
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EQS Group)     
EQS-News: tokentus investment AG / Key word(s): Investment

tokentus investment AG invests USD 300,000 into Transak Inc, a provider of global web3 payment and onboarding infrastructure 
31.05.2023 / 07:30 CET/CEST
The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.

  tokentus investment AG invests USD 300,000 into Transak Inc, a provider of global web3 payment and onboarding infrastructure     Transak is making web3 accessible to the mainstream user mainly through a fiat on- and off ramp   Transak currently supports onboarding to 160+ cryptocurrencies across 75+ blockchains   tokentus participates in Transak's USD 20m Series A round with an investment of USD 300,000   Frankfurt am Main, 31 May 2023 - Frankfurt-based tokentus investment AG ("tokentus", ISIN: DE000A3CN9R8; WKN: A3CN9R; symbol: 14D) is investing USD 300,000 into Transak USA LLC, a Delaware corporation, founded in 2019, participating in the Series A investment round of this registered money services and financial technology company that supports regulated fiat-to-crypto on-and off-ramping to 160+ crypto assets across 75+ blockchains. Trusted by over 350+ applications, including MetaMask and Coinbase Wallet, Transak is making web3 applications more accessible. By utilizing Transak, web3 platforms gain the capability to onboard users across 150+ countries, facilitating the purchase or sale of crypto assets.
Transak says it addresses an essential functionality for the use of web3, namely the seamless transition from traditional currencies to crypto assets, while providing end-to-end web2 like onboarding experience for users. Transak's product suite includes robust fiat-to-crypto services (On/Off-Ramps), a fiat-to-smart-contract solution (Transak One), and a fiat-to-NFT checkout solution.
With this financing round the company is aiming to become a full stack web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure company. Transak is working on optimising its existing products to expand coverage, support smaller transactions, streamline onboarding processes, and integrate with a wider range of blockchain networks. The company takes great pride in its commitment to maintain compliance and adhere to regulations within the constantly evolving web3-related regulatory landscape.
The round was led by CreditEase Fintech Investment Fund and alongside tokentus, investors including SBI Ven Capital, IOSG Ventures, Animoca Brands, Sygnum Bank, Azimut, Third Kind Venture Capital, UOB Venture Management, Signum Capital, Istari Ventures, No Limit Holdings, Woodstock Fund, and The Lao participated in this round.
"Investing in Transak enables us to partake in the expansion of what we believe to be a prominent player within the critical realm of web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure," says Oliver Michel, CEO of tokentus investment AG. " We at tokentus firmly believe that Transak possesses the ideal team, the capital, and the investors to reach their goal of becoming full stack web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure company," adds Benedikt Schulz, Investment Manager at tokentus.“Despite facing difficult market conditions, Transak has demonstrated impressive resilience, highlighting the effectiveness of its business model and the durability of its onboarding solutions,“adds Mona Tiesler, Investment Manager at tokentus.
    
  About tokentus investment AG  
tokentus investment AG (ISIN: DE000A3CN9R8, WKN: A3CN9R; Ticker: 14D) is an investment company focusing on the blockchain market. The shares of tokentus investment AG are listed on the m:access trading segment (unofficial market) of the Munich stock exchange and traded on XETRA and other German stock exchanges.
With the help of a constantly growing network of co-investors tokentus acquires international financial investments, shares of companies with a business model that is directly connected with the blockchain technology and SPV structures and does fund-of-funds investments. Thus shareholders of the tokentus investment AG are able to indirectly invest in a diversified, international portfolio in the pioneering blockchain market. Tokentus investment AG considers itself an investment pool and central access point for investors in the blockchain market. As a German public holding company tokentus has committed itself to transparency and regular communication with its investors. Tokentus investment AG invests in financial assets, equity and token investments, blockchain-focused venture capital funds and SPV structures.
For further information see: 
  Disclaimer  
This publication is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation to buy securities. The no-par value registered shares of tokentus investment AG (the "Shares") may not be offered or sold outside the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular not in the United States or to or for the account or benefit of "U.S. persons" (as defined in Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act")). The securities have already been sold.
  Contact for queries  
Oliver Michel
CEO der tokentus investment AG
Tel: +49 175 7222 351

 

31.05.2023 CET/CEST Dissemination of a Corporate News, transmitted by EQS News - a service of EQS Group AG.The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.The EQS Distribution Services include Regulatory Announcements, Financial/Corporate News and Press Releases.Archive at     Language:   English     Company:   tokentus investment AG       Taunusanlage 8 c/c WeWork       60329 Frankfurt       Germany     E-mail:       Internet:       ISIN:   DE000A3CN9R8     WKN:   A3CN9R     Listed:   Regulated Unofficial Market in Frankfurt, Munich     EQS News ID:   1645247                   End of News   EQS News Service    

MENAFN31052023004691010666ID1106362014 
EQS-News: tokentus investment AG / Key word(s): Investment

tokentus investment AG invests USD 300,000 into Transak Inc, a provider of global web3 payment and onboarding infrastructure 
31.05.2023 / 07:30 CET/CEST
The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.
   tokentus investment AG invests USD 300,000 into Transak Inc, a provider of global web3 payment and onboarding infrastructure   Frankfurt am Main, 31 May 2023 - Frankfurt-based tokentus investment AG ("tokentus", ISIN: DE000A3CN9R8; WKN: A3CN9R; symbol: 14D) is investing USD 300,000 into Transak USA LLC, a Delaware corporation, founded in 2019, participating in the Series A investment round of this registered money services and financial technology company that supports regulated fiat-to-crypto on-and off-ramping to 160+ crypto assets across 75+ blockchains. Trusted by over 350+ applications, including MetaMask and Coinbase Wallet, Transak is making web3 applications more accessible. By utilizing Transak, web3 platforms gain the capability to onboard users across 150+ countries, facilitating the purchase or sale of crypto assets. Transak says it addresses an essential functionality for the use of web3, namely the seamless transition from traditional currencies to crypto assets, while providing end-to-end web2 like onboarding experience for users. Transak's product suite includes robust fiat-to-crypto services (On/Off-Ramps), a fiat-to-smart-contract solution (Transak One), and a fiat-to-NFT checkout solution. With this financing round the company is aiming to become a full stack web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure company. Transak is working on optimising its existing products to expand coverage, support smaller transactions, streamline onboarding processes, and integrate with a wider range of blockchain networks. The company takes great pride in its commitment to maintain compliance and adhere to regulations within the constantly evolving web3-related regulatory landscape. The round was led by CreditEase Fintech Investment Fund and alongside tokentus, investors including SBI Ven Capital, IOSG Ventures, Animoca Brands, Sygnum Bank, Azimut, Third Kind Venture Capital, UOB Venture Management, Signum Capital, Istari Ventures, No Limit Holdings, Woodstock Fund, and The Lao participated in this round. "Investing in Transak enables us to partake in the expansion of what we believe to be a prominent player within the critical realm of web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure," says Oliver Michel, CEO of tokentus investment AG. " We at tokentus firmly believe that Transak possesses the ideal team, the capital, and the investors to reach their goal of becoming full stack web3 payments and onboarding infrastructure company," adds Benedikt Schulz, Investment Manager at tokentus.“Despite facing difficult market conditions, Transak has demonstrated impressive resilience, highlighting the effectiveness of its business model and the durability of its onboarding solutions,“adds Mona Tiesler, Investment Manager at tokentus.        About tokentus investment AG  
tokentus investment AG (ISIN: DE000A3CN9R8, WKN: A3CN9R; Ticker: 14D) is an investment company focusing on the blockchain market. The shares of tokentus investment AG are listed on the m:access trading segment (unofficial market) of the Munich stock exchange and traded on XETRA and other German stock exchanges. With the help of a constantly growing network of co-investors tokentus acquires international financial investments, shares of companies with a business model that is directly connected with the blockchain technology and SPV structures and does fund-of-funds investments. Thus shareholders of the tokentus investment AG are able to indirectly invest in a diversified, international portfolio in the pioneering blockchain market. Tokentus investment AG considers itself an investment pool and central access point for investors in the blockchain market. As a German public holding company tokentus has committed itself to transparency and regular communication with its investors. Tokentus investment AG invests in financial assets, equity and token investments, blockchain-focused venture capital funds and SPV structures. For further information see:    Disclaimer  
This publication is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation to buy securities. The no-par value registered shares of tokentus investment AG (the "Shares") may not be offered or sold outside the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular not in the United States or to or for the account or benefit of "U.S. persons" (as defined in Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act")). The securities have already been sold.   Contact for queries  
Oliver Michel
CEO der tokentus investment AG
Tel: +49 175 7222 351

  
 MENAFN31052023004691010666ID1106362014 MENAFN31052023004691010666ID1106362014 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN