Try Amazon Music Unlimited during their four month free trial. America’s biggest online retailer announced earlier today the dates of their annual shopping extravaganza. Amazon Prime Day 2023 will be on Tuesday, July 11 through Wednesday, July 12. This is the best time to score deep discounts on items from every category, including the limited streaming deal on Amazon Music Unlimited.  If you’ve been on the fence about joining Amazon Prime, this promotion might be too good to pass on. Amazon is giving away four free months of Amazon Music Unlimited to Prime members. Following the four month trial, the music service will renew at just $8.99 per month automatically, or you can cancel it following the free trial.  What is Amazon Music Unlimited? Amazon Music Unlimited is an ad-free music streaming service that has a library of 90 million songs. The service also includes lossless HD and Ultra HD music, plus spatial audio in Dolby Atmos and Sony 360 Reality formats at no additional cost. Amazon Music Unlimited costs $8.99 a month for Amazon Prime subscribers. A standalone Music Unlimited subscription is also available for $10.99 a month without Prime. You can listen to Amazon Music Unlimited on smartphones, tablets, Fire TV devices, and on Alexa-enabled products like Echo speakers. You can stream Amazon Music Unlimited on web browsers. How to get the free trial To take advantage of the promotion, simply visit Amazon Music Unlimited and hit the yellow “Try now” button. From there, you’ll just need to log into your Prime account and confirm the offer. If you don’t want to be charged before the trial ends, you will need to cancel the subscription before the trial period ends. Ashley Dill covers the online shopping industry, writing about commerce. She can be reached at adill@pennlive.com. Related articles about shopping and commerce Best deals on TVs for your outdoor space for Summer 2023 Amazon Prime Day returns July 11-12: Everything we know so far Coach’s newest summer deals: Up to 50% off handbags, wallets and more If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices