Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. Amazon  Whether you're packing up to move homes or simply need a place to put those bulky sweaters you got for the holidays, you'll require some sort of vessel to hold everything. Enter these durable bags that are sure to hold everything from holiday decorations to an entire wardrobe — and they're on sale. The Baleine 6-Pack Oversized Moving Bags have been slashed to just $37 at Amazon, bringing the price down to only $6 a bag. Each bag measures 27 inches by 15 inches by 14 inches, giving you up to 24 gallons of storage space to fit a whopping 50 pounds of items. Thanks to the durable carrying handles, you'll be able to easily move the bags from place to place — without worrying that they'll snap from too much weight. Plus, each bag can be fully opened from the top with a zipper, making it a breeze to load and unload. You'll even find a tag pocket on the top-right corner of the bag, allowing you to note what's in each bag. Stuff the water-resistant bags with just about anything, from clothes and bed linens to toys and sports supplies. Amazon  Buy It! Baleine 6-Pack Oversized Moving Bags, $36.99 (orig. $49.40); amazon.com RELATED: Calling all shoppers! Sign up to get hand-picked deals, celebrity fashion inspo, and more delivered by text message. Nearly 3,000 Amazon shoppers have given these moving bags a five-star rating, with one noting that you can pack a "full walk-in wardrobe" into the bag, while others enthused that they're "perfect for moving." One reviewer said, "I used these bags to move an entire apartment and they were so helpful," while a student explained, "These moving bags were an absolute lifesaver when I moved across the country for college." A third five-star reviewer shared that they bought these bags to help with a move between apartments, noting that they "saved the day." They added: "I love being able to see a bit of what's inside without them being completely clear. They hold a ton, but you can still carry them… without straining." They finished off by saying, "So glad I can reuse them, too." Head to Amazon to get the Baleine 6-Pack Oversized Moving Bags while they're 25 percent off. Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.