Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. “These are the most comfortable shoes I’ve ever owned” People / Tyler Roeland Whether your Fourth of July weekend plans involve beach naps, pool parties, or bottomless barbecue, comfortable footwear is a must. Amazon shoppers have given these Weweya Cloud Slide Sandals high ratings in comfort, durability, and support. Plus, tons of reviewers have compared them to pricier Birkenstock sandals, including one shopper that called them “much more comfortable.” What’s more, the best-selling Weweya sandals are up to 53 percent off ahead of Prime Day this weekend. Aptly named for their lightweight and cushion-y material, the cloud slides mold to the shape of your foot over time to give you custom support. The sandals are also super flexible, so they’ll bend in all of the right places as you walk while their buckled upper straps provide a secure fit. One shopper explained: “The cushion and bounce are like nothing I've felt before. The support is top-notch.” They added: “I also love the buckles to adjust how snug or loose they are.” Amazon $40 $19  Buy on  RELATED: The 10 Best Men’s Slip-On Shoes of 2023, Tested and Reviewed Even better, the slides are entirely waterproof, which makes them super easy to clean. Plus, it means you can easily sport them to poolside or beachside occasions this summer. They’re also equipped with drainage holes on the anti-slip sole to prevent sloshy stepping. You can snag all 17 styles of the slides on sale with varying discounts right now. There are basic neutrals like black, white, and tan, along with bolder colors like pink and orange. The sandals are available in women’s sizes 5.5 through 16 and men’s sizes 3.5 through 15. Amazon $40 $20  Buy on  More than 5,500 Amazon shoppers have given the slide sandals a perfect rating. One reviewer compared them to “walking on clouds,” while another wrote: “They are like walking on marshmallows.” A third simply said: “These are the most comfortable shoes I’ve ever owned.” RELATED: Jessica Alba, Kylie Jenner, and More Celebs Keep Turning to This Extremely Practical Summer Outfit Formula A fourth shopper also commented on the cushy comfort of the slides. They shared: “I have arthritis in both feet and have a lot of pain by the end of the day. I tried a pair of these sandals and I absolutely love them.” They continued: “I bought them to wear only in the house because I can't go barefoot. After wearing them for a few days, I ordered another pair to wear outside and for errands.” The reviewer finished off by saying, “It truly is like walking on pillows.” Do your summer wardrobe a favor and snag the comfy Weweya Cloud Slide Sandals while they’re up to 53 percent off at Amazon. Keep scrolling to see some other styles — and don’t forget to check back at Amazon on Tuesday July, 11 and Wednesday, July 12 to score even more savings during Prime Day. Amazon $40 $20  Buy on  Amazon $40 $21  Buy on  Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more. For more People news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on People. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?