Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Most Baltimore teens look forward to summer’s warm days after the school year ends. But the season can bring a sense of anxiety and even dread as the city’s violence often ticks up — with it comes increased scrutiny on how teenagers and young adults spend their time.And after a mass shooting at a block party in South Baltimore’s Brooklyn neighborhood last weekend where the majority of the victims were teenagers, the need to create safe, welcoming spaces for young adults in the city has only become more urgent.“Being in this city all my life, I know what it feels like to be looked at as a burden,” said Lawrence Summerville, 18, a member of the mayor’s Youth Advisory Council.Baltimore’s teenagers say they want to be able to simply exist in their city and be viewed as whole people, with ambitions, passions and ideas. But as kids up to 17 face renewed enforcement of the city’s longstanding youth curfew, many teens said that public spaces are rarely welcoming to them.A few months ago, on a warm April night at the Inner Harbor over city schools’ spring break, police monitored a gathering of teenagers, who were dancing and riding scooters and left by 11 p.m.In addition, several Baltimore area shopping complexes have placed restrictions on unaccompanied minors in recent years — Mondawmin Mall in West Baltimore; Towson Town Center, White Marsh Mall and The Avenue at White Marsh in Baltimore County; and, most recently, at The Mall in Columbia in Howard County.Outside the largely white areas in the central and southeastern parts of the city known as the White L, many Black and brown neighborhoods lack gathering spaces, whether it’s recreation centers, cafes or sit-down restaurants.Transcending geography, young people say that the way adults portray them in news media and talk about them on social media also can create unease.

So where can Baltimore’s teenagers hang out away from home and school?
Malieak Walker, 18, left, talking with John Lawson Mathews III, 17, says his work with The Urban Oasis’ Oasis Teens Environmental program in Panway-Braddish helps him feel engaged with the community.Being asked to help create a space for themselves can change how teenagers feel about the city and their neighborhood, some teens said. And although both public and private institutions are showing signs of considering the issue more holistically, young adults say it doesn’t take a grand idea to make a big difference in their daily lives.In conjunction with the youth curfew that began Memorial Day weekend, Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott announced a summer event series targeted toward teens, including after-hours pool parties, midnight basketball and roller skating in front of City Hall.As a member of the Youth Advisory Council, Summerville helped shape the recreation side of Scott’s response to rising violence involving teenagers. He’s grateful to be heard and have a concrete role in improving his hometown.“We share a lot of the same experience. We share a lot of the same hardships, but we can use that common experience to try to better our city, try to better our predicament,” Summerville said of city teenagers.In Baltimore, there are about 34,000 15-to-19-year-olds, two-thirds of whom are Black, according to U.S. census estimates.“By the end of the summer, I wanna say that more people’s voice was heard and that their wishes, their voices were being put into action,” Summerville said.While happy about the social and recreational events planned for this summer, some teenagers are frustrated that they’re paired with a curfew they feel criminalizes their very existence.“You’re seeing, on the one hand, the government saying, ‘Oh, come be with us.’ But then you’re also seeing them tell kids, ‘We think you deserve to stay locked in the house, and we see you as criminals,'” said 16-year-old Camille Coffey, a co-founder of the Baltimore Student Union student activist group.A number of the summer series events are planned for the Inner Harbor or in front of City Hall, not in the neighborhoods where teenagers live.  15-19-year-olds’ share of population by Community Statistical Areainteractive_contentSources:  2020 census, Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance(Victoria Stavish/The Baltimore Sun) Almost one in four households lacks access to a vehicle in Baltimore. An education nonprofit’s 2021 study found that the city’s state-run transit system is often unreliable, and the city transportation department’s Charm City Circulator, the only free public bus system in Baltimore, runs largely through white neighborhoods.Blanca Berger Sollod, 19, graduated from Baltimore City College in Coldstream-Homestead-Montebello last year. When she was traveling to school, she had to rely on one bus line, and it could take her up to 45 minutes to get to school from Charles Village. By car, the commute is less than 10 minutes.“If people have access to good, reliable, safe public transit … they have access to public safe spaces,” Sollod said. “It’s not just, ‘OK, well, do you wanna go to my house or your house? How do you even get to my house because I can’t drive? Are we going to be able to hang out this weekend even?'”Around Baltimore City College, the opening of a Dunkin’ on East 33rd Street during Sollod’s senior year changed students’ social scene, she said. Before, she and her friends would take the bus to cafes in Charles Village or Hampden, or roam the Johns Hopkins University campus. But now, students have a place they can walk to.Rasheed Aziz, the director of the entrepreneurship nonprofit Citywide Youth Development, wants to fill a similar niche for teenagers in West Baltimore. The E.M.A.G.E. Center on West North Avenue is home to the organization’s manufacturing and training programs, but it’s also a growing gathering space for residents in the Greater Mondawmin area.Preparing to expand eastward into several rowhomes, the center plans an arcade, clothing boutiques, multimedia recording rooms, a screening room and classroom space. Right now, the E.M.A.G.E. Center has a cafe with patio seating that serves food such as pizza and sandwiches and homemade sorbet.A patio where residents can enjoy a cold treat on a hot day might seem like a humble part of Aziz’s overall vision, but in an area where the Mondawmin Mall TGI Fridays is the only sit-down restaurant, it’s a step toward lifting up West Baltimore as a whole, he said.“You’ll be surprised that people from this community that haven’t even been to East Baltimore. Their system is here,” said Aziz, who lives in nearby Garwyn Oaks.“So if their lives exist in these eight, nine, 10 blocks, let’s give them a taste of being in Fells Point or being at the Inner Harbor. You know, when they enter the space, and it’s colorful, and it’s clean, and it smells good, and they can sit outside and enjoy the sun and have nice tables to eat sorbet,” he said. “You don’t have those experiences in the hood, right? But we wanted to give them those experiences.”
Janelli Gonzalez, left, hugs Sage Machado after a recent work session with The Urban Oasis’ Oasis Teens Environmental program in Panway/Braddish Avenue. Machado, who live just outside the city, says her involvement makes her feel like she’s fighting the negative stereotypes Baltimore teenagers face.Baltimore teenagers want more spaces where they can be themselves, several teenagers working with community organization The Urban Oasis in Panway/Braddish Avenue said. Those who feel welcome in a community are more inclined to look out for it, they said.When Arica Gonzalez led the transformation of an old warehouse and an abandoned lot into two community green spaces in the West Baltimore neighborhood, she tasked local kids with helping maintain it. Teenagers over 13 earn $15 an hour for mowing the lot and neighborhood lawns, picking up trash and watering plants.“I am glad that this is one of the things that do keep me outside and occupied if I’m not in the house,” Malieak Walker, 18, said. “It does help me, over time, it changes my perspective ’cause I be like, ‘All right, why y’all wasting this trash? Why y’all putting this right here?'”Sage Machado, 16, lives in Baltimore County, just outside Northwest Baltimore’s Reisterstown Station neighborhood, but regularly accompanies a city friend at The Urban Oasis cleanups. Her involvement makes her feel like she’s fighting the negative stereotypes Baltimore teenagers face.By being responsible for the maintenance and beauty of the public green space she’s been invited into, Machado said she feels like she’s helping people feel more comfortable and connected in their own neighborhood.“I wanna keep doing things like this because it not only makes me feel good about myself,” she said, “it makes me feel good about the city and to be able to call this city my home.”Baltimore City youth programmingFor teens:B’More this Summer: Engage. Connect. B’More: The mayor is hosting a series of free events for Baltimore City teens throughout the summer. Registration is required to receive food and supplies. Pool parties have been announced at William McAbee Pool on Friday; Roosevelt Park Pool on July 14; and Middle Branch pool on July 28. Saturday Night Live parties will be held this Saturday, July 22 and Aug. 12 at City Hall. Teen can expect games, food, a DJ and a photo booth.BCRP Teen Camp: Completion of this six-week program for 13-to-17-year-olds can lead to employment opportunities with Baltimore City Recreation and Parks for those 16 or older. Participants must commit for the entire July 10 to Aug. 18 program, which costs $100 a week and includes interactive workshops and a service learning project. Details and registration are online.Access2Algebra: Starting this Monday to Aug. 10 at Fort Worthington Elementary/Middle School, the program prepares rising sixth-through-eighth-grade students for STEM careers through an eighth-grade math course. In addition to getting a head start on math, participants will benefit from two field trips, projects and professional mentors related to the STEM field. Details and registrations can be accessed through Baltimore City Public Schools campus portal.For teens and younger:Elev8 Freedom School is a six-week program focusing on literacy and cultural diversity in literature, operated by operated by Baltimore City Public Schools’ community partner and education nonprofit Elev8. City students entering the first through eighth grades are welcome at the program, running Mondays through Thursdays from July 5 through Aug. 10. Breakfast and lunch are provided, and parents can enroll children online.Makerspace Exploration (STEM) Camp: In this weeklong camp, participants can join the Rec2Tech team in a hands-on experience with makerspace technology through low- and high-tech projects. At the end of the program, there will be a showcase for family and friends. The camp will be held July 31 through Aug. 4 at Madison Square Recreation Center in East Baltimore. Participants can register for free online.Great Kids Farm and Forest Camp: At this camp geared toward rising third through fifth graders, students will explore 33 acres of forest, fields and streams owned by the Great Kids Farm in Catonsville. The outdoor exploration allows students to engage with nature to reinforce the scientific concepts they might have learned during the school year. The camp has four three-day sessions available from this Monday to July 31, but students can only register for one session. AS of now, there is availability in all sessions. Details and registration can be found through the Baltimore City Public Schools campus portal. Enoch Pratt Free Library: The library is hosting an array of events for all ages across different locations. Some upcoming events include preschool story time and a Teen Writing Club at the Reisterstown Road location, the Cherry Hill Branch’s Anime Club, the Forest Park Branch’s Manga Club and more. For a complete list of the events and details, visit the library’s website. — compiled by Alecia Taylor And after a mass shooting at a block party in South Baltimore’s Brooklyn neighborhood last weekend where the majority of the victims were teenagers, the need to create safe, welcoming spaces for young adults in the city has only become more urgent. “Being in this city all my life, I know what it feels like to be looked at as a burden,” said Lawrence Summerville, 18, a member of the mayor’s Youth Advisory Council. Baltimore’s teenagers say they want to be able to simply exist in their city and be viewed as whole people, with ambitions, passions and ideas. But as kids up to 17 face renewed enforcement of the city’s longstanding youth curfew, many teens said that public spaces are rarely welcoming to them. A few months ago, on a warm April night at the Inner Harbor over city schools’ spring break, police monitored a gathering of teenagers, who were dancing and riding scooters and left by 11 p.m. In addition, several Baltimore area shopping complexes have placed restrictions on unaccompanied minors in recent years — Mondawmin Mall in West Baltimore; Towson Town Center, White Marsh Mall and The Avenue at White Marsh in Baltimore County; and, most recently, at The Mall in Columbia in Howard County. Outside the largely white areas in the central and southeastern parts of the city known as the White L, many Black and brown neighborhoods lack gathering spaces, whether it’s recreation centers, cafes or sit-down restaurants. Transcending geography, young people say that the way adults portray them in news media and talk about them on social media also can create unease. So where can Baltimore’s teenagers hang out away from home and school? Being asked to help create a space for themselves can change how teenagers feel about the city and their neighborhood, some teens said. And although both public and private institutions are showing signs of considering the issue more holistically, young adults say it doesn’t take a grand idea to make a big difference in their daily lives. In conjunction with the youth curfew that began Memorial Day weekend, Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott announced a summer event series targeted toward teens, including after-hours pool parties, midnight basketball and roller skating in front of City Hall. As a member of the Youth Advisory Council, Summerville helped shape the recreation side of Scott’s response to rising violence involving teenagers. He’s grateful to be heard and have a concrete role in improving his hometown. “We share a lot of the same experience. We share a lot of the same hardships, but we can use that common experience to try to better our city, try to better our predicament,” Summerville said of city teenagers. In Baltimore, there are about 34,000 15-to-19-year-olds, two-thirds of whom are Black, according to U.S. census estimates. “By the end of the summer, I wanna say that more people’s voice was heard and that their wishes, their voices were being put into action,” Summerville said. While happy about the social and recreational events planned for this summer, some teenagers are frustrated that they’re paired with a curfew they feel criminalizes their very existence. “You’re seeing, on the one hand, the government saying, ‘Oh, come be with us.’ But then you’re also seeing them tell kids, ‘We think you deserve to stay locked in the house, and we see you as criminals,'” said 16-year-old Camille Coffey, a co-founder of the Baltimore Student Union student activist group. A number of the summer series events are planned for the Inner Harbor or in front of City Hall, not in the neighborhoods where teenagers live.     15-19-year-olds’ share of population by Community Statistical Area interactive_content Sources:  2020 census, Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance(Victoria Stavish/The Baltimore Sun)   Almost one in four households lacks access to a vehicle in Baltimore. An education nonprofit’s 2021 study found that the city’s state-run transit system is often unreliable, and the city transportation department’s Charm City Circulator, the only free public bus system in Baltimore, runs largely through white neighborhoods. Blanca Berger Sollod, 19, graduated from Baltimore City College in Coldstream-Homestead-Montebello last year. When she was traveling to school, she had to rely on one bus line, and it could take her up to 45 minutes to get to school from Charles Village. By car, the commute is less than 10 minutes. “If people have access to good, reliable, safe public transit … they have access to public safe spaces,” Sollod said. “It’s not just, ‘OK, well, do you wanna go to my house or your house? How do you even get to my house because I can’t drive? Are we going to be able to hang out this weekend even?'” Around Baltimore City College, the opening of a Dunkin’ on East 33rd Street during Sollod’s senior year changed students’ social scene, she said. Before, she and her friends would take the bus to cafes in Charles Village or Hampden, or roam the Johns Hopkins University campus. But now, students have a place they can walk to. Rasheed Aziz, the director of the entrepreneurship nonprofit Citywide Youth Development, wants to fill a similar niche for teenagers in West Baltimore. The E.M.A.G.E. Center on West North Avenue is home to the organization’s manufacturing and training programs, but it’s also a growing gathering space for residents in the Greater Mondawmin area. Preparing to expand eastward into several rowhomes, the center plans an arcade, clothing boutiques, multimedia recording rooms, a screening room and classroom space. Right now, the E.M.A.G.E. Center has a cafe with patio seating that serves food such as pizza and sandwiches and homemade sorbet. A patio where residents can enjoy a cold treat on a hot day might seem like a humble part of Aziz’s overall vision, but in an area where the Mondawmin Mall TGI Fridays is the only sit-down restaurant, it’s a step toward lifting up West Baltimore as a whole, he said. “You’ll be surprised that people from this community that haven’t even been to East Baltimore. Their system is here,” said Aziz, who lives in nearby Garwyn Oaks. “So if their lives exist in these eight, nine, 10 blocks, let’s give them a taste of being in Fells Point or being at the Inner Harbor. You know, when they enter the space, and it’s colorful, and it’s clean, and it smells good, and they can sit outside and enjoy the sun and have nice tables to eat sorbet,” he said. “You don’t have those experiences in the hood, right? But we wanted to give them those experiences.” Baltimore teenagers want more spaces where they can be themselves, several teenagers working with community organization The Urban Oasis in Panway/Braddish Avenue said. Those who feel welcome in a community are more inclined to look out for it, they said. When Arica Gonzalez led the transformation of an old warehouse and an abandoned lot into two community green spaces in the West Baltimore neighborhood, she tasked local kids with helping maintain it. Teenagers over 13 earn $15 an hour for mowing the lot and neighborhood lawns, picking up trash and watering plants. “I am glad that this is one of the things that do keep me outside and occupied if I’m not in the house,” Malieak Walker, 18, said. “It does help me, over time, it changes my perspective ’cause I be like, ‘All right, why y’all wasting this trash? Why y’all putting this right here?'” Sage Machado, 16, lives in Baltimore County, just outside Northwest Baltimore’s Reisterstown Station neighborhood, but regularly accompanies a city friend at The Urban Oasis cleanups. Her involvement makes her feel like she’s fighting the negative stereotypes Baltimore teenagers face. By being responsible for the maintenance and beauty of the public green space she’s been invited into, Machado said she feels like she’s helping people feel more comfortable and connected in their own neighborhood. “I wanna keep doing things like this because it not only makes me feel good about myself,” she said, “it makes me feel good about the city and to be able to call this city my home.” Baltimore City youth programming For teens: B’More this Summer: Engage. Connect. B’More: The mayor is hosting a series of free events for Baltimore City teens throughout the summer. Registration is required to receive food and supplies. Pool parties have been announced at William McAbee Pool on Friday; Roosevelt Park Pool on July 14; and Middle Branch pool on July 28. Saturday Night Live parties will be held this Saturday, July 22 and Aug. 12 at City Hall. Teen can expect games, food, a DJ and a photo booth. BCRP Teen Camp: Completion of this six-week program for 13-to-17-year-olds can lead to employment opportunities with Baltimore City Recreation and Parks for those 16 or older. Participants must commit for the entire July 10 to Aug. 18 program, which costs $100 a week and includes interactive workshops and a service learning project. Details and registration are online. Access2Algebra: Starting this Monday to Aug. 10 at Fort Worthington Elementary/Middle School, the program prepares rising sixth-through-eighth-grade students for STEM careers through an eighth-grade math course. In addition to getting a head start on math, participants will benefit from two field trips, projects and professional mentors related to the STEM field. Details and registrations can be accessed through Baltimore City Public Schools campus portal. For teens and younger: Elev8 Freedom School is a six-week program focusing on literacy and cultural diversity in literature, operated by operated by Baltimore City Public Schools’ community partner and education nonprofit Elev8. City students entering the first through eighth grades are welcome at the program, running Mondays through Thursdays from July 5 through Aug. 10. Breakfast and lunch are provided, and parents can enroll children online. Makerspace Exploration (STEM) Camp: In this weeklong camp, participants can join the Rec2Tech team in a hands-on experience with makerspace technology through low- and high-tech projects. At the end of the program, there will be a showcase for family and friends. The camp will be held July 31 through Aug. 4 at Madison Square Recreation Center in East Baltimore. Participants can register for free online. Great Kids Farm and Forest Camp: At this camp geared toward rising third through fifth graders, students will explore 33 acres of forest, fields and streams owned by the Great Kids Farm in Catonsville. The outdoor exploration allows students to engage with nature to reinforce the scientific concepts they might have learned during the school year. The camp has four three-day sessions available from this Monday to July 31, but students can only register for one session. AS of now, there is availability in all sessions. Details and registration can be found through the Baltimore City Public Schools campus portal.  Enoch Pratt Free Library: The library is hosting an array of events for all ages across different locations. Some upcoming events include preschool story time and a Teen Writing Club at the Reisterstown Road location, the Cherry Hill Branch’s Anime Club, the Forest Park Branch’s Manga Club and more. For a complete list of the events and details, visit the library’s website.  — compiled by Alecia Taylor Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun