The MAX blue and red lines are set to be disrupted on Sunday.Mark Graves Portland sports fans traveling from the west side will need to plan ahead on Sunday if they are attending either the Portland Thorns’ NWSL semifinal match at Providence Park or the Trail Blazers game at Moda Center. TriMet announced the MAX blue and red lines will be disrupted on Sunday as TriMet and its partners undergo an emergency response exercise at the Washington Park MAX station. The exercise is required by the Federal Transit Administration. Many planning to attend the Thorns or Trail Blazers games will need to make alternative travel plans, as any eastbound MAX train from the west side won’t be able to advance beyond Sunset Transit Center. TriMet said shuttle buses will serve the stations between Sunset Transit Center and Providence Park. Additionally, TriMet said the MAX red line trains will only run between Gateway Transit Center and Portland International Airport. Kickoff for the Thorns vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC is set for 4 p.m. Sunday at Providence Park, and the Trail Blazers host the Memphis Grizzlies at 6 p.m. Sunday at Moda Center. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices