Re Ohio may require parental consent for kids to use some social media apps, " June 14: There is a quote from Lt. Gov. Jon Husted about social media "It's leading to the deaths of young people... It's time that we did something about it." Well, Lt. Gov. Husted, guns are killing many more young people than social media. When are you going to do something about guns? More: DeWine wants social media companies to get parental consent before kids can sign up Brenda Chaney, Columbus I was glad to see Mark Ferenchik’s March 30 article "Columbus is booming but are roads ready?" bringing attention to the need for different forms of transit. Central Ohio needs more options other than cars, not only because this is healthier for the region and crucial for development and economic prosperity, but because investing in infrastructure that supports other modes of transportation would save lives. More: As Columbus booms, is region ready for transportation demands? A lot needs to happen Despite The City of Columbus’ adoption of Vision Zero, a data-driven strategy to reduce traffic deaths to zero, these deaths continue to rise in the region according to the Columbus Department of Public Service 2021 Annual Report. Over 1,800 fatal or serious injury crashes in Columbus streets have been reported in the last five years. Instead of prioritizing the modes of transportation that would make our streets safer, decision makers continue expanding highways and roads, further increasing our dependence on cars. More: As Columbus booms, is region ready for transportation demands? A lot needs to happen Not having affordable and reliable mass transit and other transportation infrastructure such as protected bicycle lanes or rapid transit systems, costs way too much to central Ohio residents. City leaders should act immediately and take advantage of available federal funds for infrastructure improvements and climate pollution reduction to make our city safer and more equitable. Laura Cocoma, Columbus As Thomas Suddes notes in his Sunday column “since 1912 Ohioans have been able to use petitions to directly propose constitutional amendments, then approve or reject them in a statewide election. Approval requires 50%-plus-1 of the votes cast.” The current proposal to require a 60% statewide “yes” vote to ratify proposed amendments seems simply to raise that limit.  It is not so simple. In fact, it gives the right to disapprove proposed amendments to a minority of 40%-plus-1.  Just as we could never imagine or approve voting someone out of office because their opponent received 41% of the vote, we cannot allow the constitution to be constructed with 41% of the vote. We have long been a country of majority rule; this change to minority rule is absolutely undermining of our democracy.  And even worse is the completely unnecessary proposed requirement that petitions be signed in all 88 counties, an increase from the current requirement of 44.  Voters in all 88 counties already have a voice on election day; this is merely a craven attempt to crush the voice of the people. Julie Carpenter-Hubin, Columbus This article originally appeared on The Columbus Dispatch: Letters: Cars shouldn't be the only options in Columbus New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.