At Salone del Mobile 2023, Molteni & C presents a contemporary interpretation of the Roman Domus, featuring murals by Roberto Ruspoli: watch the video 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Molteni & C's Salone del Mobile 2023 fair pavilion featured a hand-drawn intervention by Italian artist Roberto Ruspoli. Adding a new dimension to the classically sleek fair stand, the design combined the soft versatility of the company's new collections with the gentle trait of the artist's signature work. The murals were part of artistic director Vincent Van Duysen's vision for the 2023 presentation, bringing to life his approach to the art of living and merging indoor and outdoor spaces within the fairground booth.   Mateo table by Vincent Van Duysen, Porta Volta Chair by Herzog & de Meuron The space is based on an ancient Roman Domus, whose living environments are developed around a central courtyard (featuring Molteni & C's outdoor collection, which made its debut earlier this year). Van Duysen was also inspired by the 1933 house by Pier Giulio Magistretti in Milan, whose architecture integrates modern and classic elements throughout. The collection includes new designs by Van Duysen, such as the Mateo table and Augusto sofa, as well as pieces by Naoto Fukasawa including the Tuscany chaise longue, and Herzog & de Meuron's Porta Volta chair, originally conceived for the reading room of the Israel National Library in Jerusalem. 'I like being able to interact with contemporary design, creating something that somehow trascends time' says Ruspoli, whose work forms the backdrop for Molteni & C's sophisticated living sets. Titled 'Virgilio's Dream', Ruspoli's intervention adds a poetic aura to the fairground pavilion. The space is created as the imaginary room of the young poet Virgil, a place where poetic visions are formed: hand-drawn in black chalk, the drawings feature classical stylised elements, including plants and stylized humans.  Porta Volta chair by Herzog & de Meuron 'Contours, lines, and anthropomorphic figures stand out in a monochromatic space, contaminated by ancient forms revisited with a modern twist,' adds Van Duysen. 'The classical gives way to the contemporary, in a stylistic ecstasy that breaks the patterns of space and time, to find itself in the here and now.' Receive our daily digest of inspiration, escapism and design stories from around the world direct to your inbox. 'My work is like jazz, it usually comes into existence the moment I create it,' adds Ruspoli. 'The crucial part is a contemplation of the space: each space will tell me what it needs.' molteni.it Rosa Bertoli was born in Udine, Italy, and now lives in London. Since 2014, she has been the Design Editor of Wallpaper*, where she oversees design content for the print and online editions, as well as special editorial projects. Through her role at Wallpaper*, she has written extensively about all areas of design. Rosa has been speaker and moderator for various design talks and conferences including London Craft Week, Maison & Objet, The Italian Cultural Institute (London), Clippings, Zaha Hadid Design, Kartell and Frieze Art Fair. Rosa has been on judging panels for the Chart Architecture Award, the Dutch Design Awards and the DesignGuild Marks. She has written for numerous English and Italian language publications, and worked as a content and communication consultant for fashion and design brands. 
Boghossian's new Palace Voyages collection is inspired by royal architecture
 
By Hannah Silver

Published 18 August 24

 
'Tropicality' is a key theme in a new book on Indonesian architect Andra Matin, whose work blends landscape, architecture and living
 
By Harriet Thorpe

Published 18 August 24

 
X Muse, Scotland's home-grown young vodka brand, is taking the art world by storm; a perfect partner then for the Edinburgh Art Festival's 20th anniversary.
 
By Hugo Macdonald

Published 18 August 24

 
Molteni&C is masterminding the interior furnishing of a new coastal development in the Uruguayan resort, set to launch in 2026
 
By Hugo Macdonald

Published 8 July 24

 
Designed by Vincent Van Duysen, the Molteni & C Shanghai flagship also includes collections by UniFor, an Art Gallery and Restaurant, making it the company's largest showroom globally
 
By Rosa Bertoli

Published 7 June 24

 
Wallpaper* July 2024 rounds up the best new furniture, lighting, kitchens, bathrooms and more – on sale now
 
By Bill Prince

Published 6 June 24

 
Ronan Bouroullec's designs for Mutina at Milan Design Week 2024 include outdoor tiles as well as ceramic editions
 
By Cristina Kiran Piotti

Published 2 May 24

 
During Milan Design Week 2024, Jaipur Rugs demonstrated its expertise through a collaboration with Chanel-owned yarn experts Vimar1991
 
By Cristina Kiran Piotti

Published 1 May 24

 
Wallpaper* and grown-diamond specialist SNOW partnered on the Class of ’24 exhibition during Milan Design Week 2024 and a new film exploring the art and alchemy of the laboratory’s process
 
By Simon Mills

Published 30 April 24

 
Japanese brand Adal Look into Nature exhibited for the first time at Salone del Mobile 2024, showcasing its contemporary products made using igusa, a traditional material whose manufacturing is slowly disappearing
 
By Danielle Demetriou

Published 30 April 24

 
Toiletpaper present 'ToiletAlex PaperPrager' their new unsettling projects on the occasion of Milan Design Week 2024
 
By Cristina Kiran Piotti

Published 28 April 24

 Wallpaper* is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 