  Your special offer X     One of the largest UK Classics sailing regattas, the Atkins Ferrie Wealth Management sponsored Falmouth Classics will, for the first time, include a fleet of twelve steam boats, all members of the international Steam Boat Association. The fleet of steam boats will add to the sounds and sights of upwards of 200 gaff and Bermudan yachts, luggers and working boats, many built and designed before the 1950s, that will fill the Port of Falmouth from 16 -18 June. The event coincides with the International Sea Shanty Festival and the racing and parades on the water will add a marine dimension to the on-land festivities. The fleet of twelve steam boats will be based at Mylor Yacht Harbour for the weekend but will visit the port on Saturday from 11.00 until 14.00 where they will be able to viewed by the public on the Falmouth Haven, later in the afternoon they will be alongside at the Royal Cornwall Yacht Club. The fleet will participate in the Heather and Lay Steam Small Boat Parade in the inner harbour on Sunday from 13.30 -14.30. Alan Davis and Nigel Cooper, the Steam Boat Association’s Fal Rally organisers, who own the steam boats “Quetzal”(20’) and  ‘”Halcyon” (16’), noted for their gleaming brass fittings’ said “Our rally participants are very much looking forward to participating in the Falmouth Classics on both the Saturday and the Sunday and the Steam Boat Association has already been warmly  welcomed by the Falmouth Classics team.” The fleet of steam boats range from 15 feet to 28 feet in length and one of the oldest is “Artemis” built in 1899 as one of two tenders (the other similar but powered by oars and sails) to the yacht  “Artemis”, a 120′ Yawl. She still has her original 1899 quadruple expansion engine and is still coal fired. Mike Phillips, her current owner, says “With a good stoker she can maintain a steady 6-7 knots”. Don Garman, Vice Chairman of the Falmouth Classics Association  said “ Participation by members of the Steam Boat Association will add another dimension to the 2023 Falmouth Classics and we look forward to the sights, smells and sounds of steam in the port provided by the fleet of beautifully maintained craft.” The2023  Falmouth Classics includes three races in the Fal and the bay, a grand parade of sail in the Carrick Roads, the Heather and Lay steam and small boat parade in the inner harbour, opportunities for the public to get close to the participating craft, an all comers rowing and sculling competition at the Royal Cornwall Yacht Club and a Maritime Village on the town quays,   Classic Boat is the magazine for the world’s most beautiful boats. Packed with stunning images, we have the inside stories of the great classic yachts and motorboats afloat today, as well as fascinating tales from yesteryear and the latest from the wooden boat building scene around the world. © 2024 The Chelsea Magazine Company, part of the Telegraph Media Group.
Terms & Conditions |
      Privacy Policy |
      Cookie Policy
