TravelCenters of America, a Westlake-based operator of truck stops and travel plazas, has agreed to be purchased by BP for $1.3 billion. The Plain Dealer WESTLAKE, Ohio — TravelCenters of America is being re-acquired by BP for $1.3 billion, according to announcements from both companies. TravelCenters of America, which is headquartered in Westlake, has a network of about 280 truck stops across 44 U.S. States. It employs 18,000 people, according to the company. BP will buy all of the outstanding shares of TravelCenters of America for $86 a share, or about $1.3 billion in total. BP is paying about 84% over market value, since the average trading price for the company’s shares was $46.68 over the last 30 days. The sale will close sometime in the middle of 2023. Shareholders will have to approve the sale. The truck-stop chain was started by Phil Saunders in 1972 as Truckstops of America. It was purchased by Ryder, and was bought by Standard Oil in 1984. But after BP bought Standard Oil, it sold Truckstops of America in 1993. Truckstops of America merged with another company in 1997, resulting in the new name — TravelCenters of America. In its own announcement, BP said the purchase will allow the company to expand in several ways. While many of BP’s gas stations are in cities and off the highway, buying TravelCenters of America gives the company 280 locations that have direct highway access. The merger of the two companies will also help BP expand its electric-vehicle charging options and make it easier to expand into other fueling options, like hydrogen. Bernard Looney, BP’s CEO, said in a press release that the purchase helps BP leans into the areas where it wants to grow. “By enabling growth in EV charging, biofuels and renewable natural gas and later hydrogen, we can help our customers decarbonize their fleets,” Looney said. “It’s a compelling combination.” TravelCenters of America’s sites, branded as TA Petro Shopping Centers and TA Express stations, usually average about 25 acres , according to BP. They offer fueling, restaurants and retail options along with truck maintenance and repair services. BP has set a goal to become a net-zero company by 2050 or sooner. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices