Jul 15, 2023 Gov. Mike DeWine has announced the locations of 27 new high-powered electric-vehicle charging stations that will be installed along Ohio interstates, but none of the selected sites in round one are in the Mahoning Valley. There were three exits on Interstate 76 in Mahoning County for which the state requested proposals. No feasible bids were received, however, Breanna Badanes, spokeswoman for DriveOhio, the state’s center for smart mobility, said. EV fast-charging station on Salt Springs Road immediately off Interstate 80 in Trumbull County. “The focus with this first round was to select locations every 50 miles along interstates. However, future rounds will look to build stations on major state and U.S. routes …,” Badanes said. “This first round awarded just over $18 million of the $140 million total allocated to Ohio, so we’re confident we can meet the needs in each region of the state in future rounds.” The Ohio Department of Transportation this fall is expected to issue round two proposal requests to install 16 more charging stations along the state’s major U.S. and state routes. DeWine said Ohio’s moving forward makes it the first state in the nation to announce charging station sites that will be developed as part of the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure program.  Program funds will be used to locate the stations along Ohio’s seven interstate corridors: Interstates 70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 90.  “This is an exciting time for Ohio as we continue to lead the charge in electric mobility,” DeWine said. “As more Ohioans purchase EVs, this statewide network of chargers will ensure that our transportation infrastructure is prepared to accommodate these drivers, as well as visitors who travel to Ohio to see all that our great state has to offer.”   The $18 million in NEVI funding will be matched with nearly $6 million from the private entities selected to install and operate the new EV fast charging stations, including Pilot Travel Centers, TH Midwest, Francis Energy, Meijer Stores, EVgo Services, ChargeNet Stations and Equilon / Shell.  WINNING PROPOSALS Winning proposals include site plans at existing travel centers, grocery stores, retail shops, a hotel, a restaurant and a bank. The new charging stations will be located every 50 miles and will be situated no more than 1 mile off the interstate. Each site will include at least four charger ports with 150 kilowatts for each port and will be accessible 24/7 with easy access to food, drinks and restrooms.  Ohio was the first state to release a request for charging station proposals last year, which was a strategic move to put Ohio ahead of other states for sought-after equipment and specialized technicians to install the stations.  “Our strategy throughout this process has been intentional. Each location was bid as a separate project to give Ohio a competitive advantage, stretching every dollar available to us,” Jack Marchbanks, ODOT director, said.  DriveOhio, a division of ODOT, will oversee the implementation of the new charging stations, which are expected to be in operation next year. The new fast-charging stations will join 13 pre-existing federally compliant charging stations in Ohio, including the docks on Salt Springs Road. “One of the major concerns for consumers considering purchasing an electric vehicle has been ‘Can I find a place to charge it?’ This is a major step in removing that barrier and making sure that in Ohio, the answer is yes,” Preeti Choudhary, DriveOhio executive director, said.  About 53,000 electric vehicles are registered in Ohio, with that number expected to increase significantly in coming years. Ohio will receive $140 million in NEVI funds over the next five years to support the installation of EV charging stations. Once charging stations are installed on Ohio’s interstates, state routes and U.S. routes, the remaining funding will be used to install charging stations in other areas.  TOLL ROAD The Ohio Turnpike and Infrastructure Commission, which oversees the 241-mile turnpike that runs through the Mahoning Valley, is undertaking its own EV charger installation program. The commission has partnered with Tesla and Electrify America to install the stations at multiple service plazas. Expansion is underway to bring additional EV charging stations to the Mahoning Valley and Glacier Hills service plazas in New Springfield in Mahoning County. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox GIRARD — A neighborhood dispute over dog waste led to the arrest of a Girard man Sunday. 

Officers were ... WARREN — A Trumbull County grand jury Wednesday issued 54 indictments, including nine secret indictments.

The ... WEATHERSFIELD — Township officials unveiled their new $550,000 fire rescue and pumper vehicle, the purchase of ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Tribune Chronicle | https://www.tribtoday.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44483 | 330-841-1600 