Tennessee football’s first of 10 consecutive losses to Nick Saban at Bryant-Denny Stadium was in 2007. But the 41-17 defeat didn’t linger. The Vols bounced back from the loss to win five consecutive games and qualify for the SEC Championship game. Resilience is required again after UT’s 34-20 loss to Saban’s Tide at Bryant-Denny on Saturday. Five games remain, and two of them – against Connecticut and Vanderbilt – are practically sure things. The others – against Kentucky, Missouri and Georgia – will determine whether this season is a success, failure or something in between. In a best-case scenario, Tennessee (5-2, 2-2 SEC) will continue to excel on defense − aside from the second half against Alabama − while finding more ways to produce offense like it did in taking a 20-7 first-half lead against the Tide. As good as its offense looked for a half against, it’s easier to trust Tennessee’s defense than its offense. UT’s offense still reminds no one of last season’s model, which led the nation in both points and yards per game. And its inconsistency was apparent again in the first- to second-half flip-flop in Saturday's defeat. Quarterback Joe Milton’s inconsistency already has been well documented. You were reminded of that Saturday. He completed 16 of 22 passes for 175 yards, two touchdowns and no turnovers in the first half. In the second half, he was 12-for-19 passing for only 96 yards and handed Alabama a touchdown on a fumble, which turned into a Tide scoop and score. Despite the extreme drop-off in the second half, Milton’s running was encouraging. The offense clearly functions better when he is running the ball, which he has done sparingly this season. But against Alabama, he rushed for 59 yards on 15 carries. His ability to take on tacklers and make extra yards added a much-needed dimension to the Tennessee offense. It wasn’t enough to overcome Alabama’s 27-0 second-half surge. But it bodes well for the rest of the season. No. 1 Georgia is the only team remaining on UT’s schedule with a defense comparable to Alabama’s. Although Tennessee’s defense struggled against Alabama in the second half, it has proved itself frequently this season. You could attribute some of its success to the opposition. The Vols ranked third nationally in sacks and tackles for loss per game before Saturday. None of UT’s first seven opponents, including Alabama, ranked better than 62nd in sacks allowed, and four of them ranked 99th or higher. But Tennessee's improvement on defense from last season to this one isn't merely a testament to a decline in competition. UT ranked in the top 25 in sixth significant categories in the first half of the season: rushing defense (20th), scoring defense (17th), tackles for loss (tied for third), sacks (third), pass efficiency defense (24th), and total yards allowed per game (17th). Much of the credit for that should go to defensive coordinator Tim Banks. Last season, my inbox reflected fan dissatisfaction with Banks. I haven’t gotten one email this season along those lines. Banks’ aggressive defense has pressured most opposing quarterbacks relentlessly. You probably should expect more of the same in the majority of the last five games. Only Georgia is apt to slow down Tennessee’s pass rush. ADAMS: A first half to remember, a game to forget for Tennessee football vs Alabama  Maybe, that defense will be enough against Kentucky on Oct. 28. However, more points likely will be needed against Missouri and Georgia. But when Tennessee needs something extra, perhaps Milton’s running can provide it. John Adams is a senior columnist. He may be reached at 865-342-6284 or john.adams@knoxnews.com. Follow him at: twitter.com/johnadamskns. This article originally appeared on Knoxville News Sentinel: Tennessee football: A rebound hinges on defense, QB Joe Milton running Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.