Search CSP Daily News TravelCenters of America Inc. (TA), Westlake Ohio, saw positive fourth-quarter retail sales growth but negative fuel earnings as it prepares to merge with bp Products North America in mid-2023. The company brought in a net income of $46.8 million, a 266% increase compared to fourth-quarter 2021.  Store and retail sales at TA saw a 2.1% increase from fourth-quarter 2021 to 2022, bringing in $191 million this quarter.  TA’s restaurant business, which includes more than 200 company-owned and external brands, had more restaurant openings this year. The company made $83 million in the restaurant segment in 2022, a 7.8% increase from 2021. In terms of fuel, total sales volume was down 2.2%, with $564 million in sales. Broken down, gasoline and diesel fuel declined 5.8% and 1.8%, respectively.  The company earned $10.8 billion in year-end revenue compared to $7.3 billion in 2021. In 2022, fuel made up $8.7 billion and nonfuel accounted for $2.1 billion of the total revenue. TravelCenters of America is the nation's largest publicly traded full-service travel center network. Founded in 1972 and based in Westlake, Ohio, it has 281 locations in 44 states, principally under the TA, Petro Stopping Centers and TA Express brands. Offerings include diesel and gasoline fuel, truck maintenance and repair, travel stores, car and truck parking and other services. TA also operates more than 600 full-service and quick-service restaurants (QSRs) and nine proprietary brands, including Iron Skillet and Country Pride. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a CSP member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest Related More on this Topic In latest store plan, convenience retailer condensing combustible cigarette section ‘more and more’ Protein, portion control and fresh fruit are increasingly at home alongside chips and candy Convenience retailers are increasingly making shelf space for local favorites Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024