MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our partner, Faye Tom Adams is a writer based in the U.K. who specializes in travel advice. Previously, he has written for sports brands, travel blogs and even an archaeological study. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the best travel insurance companies The Netherlands is a wonderful place to travel on vacation. It’s a cultural hub for art and history, making it a prime destination for travelers. The Netherlands also enjoys a low crime rate and a reputation for safety, so you might wonder why you would want to purchase travel insurance for a trip here. But no trip is immune from travel delays or unforeseen cancellations. And with the expense of flights and the cost of accommodations and tours in the Netherlands, having the best travel insurance is a smart way to protect your vacation. The Netherlands is part of Europe’s Schengen area, formed after an agreement between countries in the European Union that allow people to move freely from country to country without passport checks at mutual borders. Some travelers must have a Schengen visa to enter Schengen countries, and they must prove that they have insurance. U.S. citizens don’t need a Schengen visa for a short-term stay (less than 90 days), and there are no travel insurance requirements for short-term visits. Check the Dutch consular website to see what specific visa requirements apply to you. Travel insurance is mandatory if you have a Schengen visa. But even if you aren’t required to have travel insurance, you should consider it when you take a trip there. International travel always has its quirks, whether from flight cancellations, baggage delays or an unforeseen emergency. Having sound personal effects coverage and quality medical coverage for any trip are good moves. You may also want cancellation and interruption coverage to protect from losing money should you need to cancel your trip. Use the table below to compare costs, CFAR coverages and COVID-19 coverages for our top travel insurance companies that will cover trip to the Netherlands. Our editorial team follows a comprehensive methodology for rating and reviewing travel insurance companies. Advertisers have no effect on our rankings. Companies Reviewed Quotes Collected Rating Factors The sections below provide an overview of the different types of coverage available in travel insurance policies. Cancel for Any Reason (CFAR) coverage is an add-on feature offered by many travel insurance companies. This insurance rider lets you cancel your trip for any reason, even if it’s not included in the standard trip cancellation reasons. While CFAR coverage offers peace of mind should you need to postpone or reschedule your vacation, it typically comes with specific requirements and limitations. These vary by insurance provider, but limitations usually include: If you’re interested in buying cancel for any reason coverage, check with your provider about specific requirements. Gear theft protection insurance protects you against the theft or loss of valuable gear, equipment or tools. It’s relevant for travelers who take expensive equipment on trips: high-end cameras, sporting gear, laptops, etc. Gear theft protection insurance typically covers the cost of replacing or repairing your gear if it gets stolen, lost or damaged. Specific coverage and terms vary by policy and provider. It’s important to review the fine print of the rider before buying it. Medical emergency insurance covers medical expenses that you incur while on a trip. Medical care in the Netherlands can be expensive, so we recommend travel health insurance with a high medical maximum. Travel medical insurance covers: Travel health insurance won’t cover costs associated with pre-existing conditions. If you have a health condition that you may need treatment for while traveling, declare the condition to your provider ahead of time. The company may include your condition(s) in your travel insurance plan, although the price of the add-on is likely to rise. You can also add rental car protection to your travel insurance policy. It supplies financial protection for vehicles you rent during your trip, usually at a lower price than what you can get from your rental agency. It reimburses costs related to damage or theft associated with a rental car. Many travel insurance companies have rental car protection as an optional add-on to your policy. Rental car protection within travel insurance typically offers coverage for the following: Trip cancellation insurance allows you to claim back any nonrefundable deposits made for your trip should you need to cancel your plans. Usually, you get reimbursed for 100% of your insured trip cost. Cancellation coverage is subject to certain terms and conditions. Unlike CFAR, cancellation insurance will only reimburse you for unforeseen incidents that are covered in your insurance policy. These include: The cost of travel insurance can vary greatly between providers, as they will offer different levels of coverage. The below table compares the prices of the cheapest travel insurance plans available from five insurance companies. We requested quotes from ten travel insurance companies for their most affordable plan for a trip to Netherlands. The below quotes are for a 30-year-old traveler from Florida, traveling to Netherlands for ten days in September 2024, with a total trip cost of $4,000. Policies include coverage for cancellations, interruptions, delays, medical care and evacuation. These quotes were collected in April 2024 for a trip in September 2024. Most plans cost about the same. USI Affinity’s Basic policy costs significantly more than others. This plan offers $150,000 in medical coverage (not the highest maximum), as World Trips’ Basic policy offers up to $260,000. All of the above plans include 100% cancellation coverage. Tin Leg, Seven Corners and USI Affinity have $500 in coverage for baggage loss/damage. Nationwide provides $600, and World Trips offers up to $1,000. Either may be more suitable for travelers taking expensive equipment. Seven Corners provides CFAR as optional coverage, but the other plans don’t include it unless the policy is upgraded. Tin Leg and Seven Corners also include COVID-19 in their medical coverage. If this is a concern for you, these plans are recommended. A good place to start shopping for travel insurance is to ask your bank or credit card provider if they offer coverage. You may already be entitled to extra benefits through either entity. Also, compare quotes from multiple insurance providers. Most have more than one policy available. Some insurance companies may offer cheaper insurance plans, but these will likely have fewer benefits. When purchasing travel insurance, always check with your insurance company for details about claim procedures, exclusions, and additional benefits. The Netherlands remains one of the safest travel destinations on the globe, ranking 20th on the 2022 Global Peace Index. However, travel advisories highlight some dangers related to terror attacks, which have increased across some European countries. Google for more updated information about incidents, any attacks or violence that could impact your trip. Travelers are unlikely to encounter petty crimes while visiting cities like Rotterdam or the Hague. Pickpockets are uncommon but remain cautious and keep any valuables you take in a secure location, like a hotel safe. Amsterdam is known for its “coffee shops,” not to be confused with regular cafes because they’re licensed to sell cannabis. Even though it’s legal, marijuana regulations remain strict in Holland and other provinces. Cities closer to bordering countries like Belgium have already introduced legislation that prevents store owners from selling cannabis to non-residents. If you plan to partake, only consume it in licensed venues. The Netherlands offers travelers a range of activities to fill up an itinerary. From seeing tulips in April to exploring the iconic Dutch windmills, there are many sights to see. If you want to check out the famous Anne Frank and Van Gogh museums, book in advance: wait times can be long. If you plan to visit multiple museums, consider purchasing the Museumkaart. For just 60 euros, you can enter more than 400 museums across the country and not have to pay admission, although booking fees may still apply. The Netherlands is known for its cycling, and many cities and towns have dedicated cycling paths. Cyclists have the right of way, so pay attention when crossing roads or paths to avoid any accidents. If you are planning a cycling trip, wear a helmet and don’t ride recklessly. The Dutch government lifted all restrictions related to COVID-19 for visitors entering the country. Travelers don’t need to provide proof of vaccination or a negative PCR test when they arrive. If you have concerns about COVID-19, be sure that your travel insurance plan includes coronavirus in your medical coverage. More information about COVID-19 can be found on the U.S. consulate website. If you’re going on vacation to the Netherlands, we highly recommend travel insurance. Having a good travel insurance plan protects you from paying medical costs or replacing your belongings out of pocket. Although the risks of traveling in the Netherlands are minimal, interruptions and travel delays are impossible to predict. Having quality travel insurance provides a safety net should you need it. For more information about what Netherlands travel insurance covers, read through the FAQs below. You can claim compensation on your travel insurance for any canceled or delayed travel arrangements, such as flights or hotels. Find details of the claim procedure and the amounts available to you in your insurance policy. Read more here about how to claim travel compensation. Travelers that require a Schengen visa also must have travel insurance. This is dependent on your country of residence. Further details about Schengen visas and travel insurance can be found here. Medical care in the Netherlands is not free. If you need treatment or a prescription while on vacation, you must pay the full cost. Healthcare can be expensive, so having good medical coverage in your insurance plan is recommended. Health insurance usually covers medical costs in your country of residence. Some providers may extend coverage to include trips abroad, but this is not always the case. Check with your health insurance company about whether you need to buy additional coverage that encompasses your destination. Our team surveyed dozens of travel insurance providers and created a scoring system to judge each company based on coverage, quality and service. We also collected sample quotes from each company, both over the phone and on the internet, to simulate an authentic customer experience. Here are the factors we take into consideration when rating providers:

Cost (10%): To determine a baseline average travel insurance cost, we gathered quotes from each travel insurance company based on different traveler profiles. Travel insurance companies at or below our calculated average cost of $221 earn full points in this category. Specifically, we obtained quotes for the following trips

A 30-year-old couple taking a $5,000 vacation to Mexico.
A family of four taking an $8,000 vacation to Mexico.
A 65-year-old couple taking a $7,000 vacation to the United Kingdom.
A 30-year-old couple taking a $7,000 trip to the United Kingdom.
A 19-year-old taking a $2,000 trip to France.
A 27-year-old couple taking a $1,200 trip to Greece.
A 51-year-old couple taking a $2,000 trip to Spain.


Plan availability (10%): We look for insurers with a variety of travel insurance plans and the ability to customize a policy with coverage upgrades.
Coverage details (29%): We review the baseline coverage each company offers in its cheapest comprehensive plan. A provider with robust coverage earns full points, including baggage delay and loss, COVID-19 coverage, emergency evacuation and medical coverage, trip delay and cancellation coverage, and more. Companies also receive points for offering a variety of policy add-ons like accidental death and dismemberment, extreme sports, valuable items, cancel for any reason coverage and more.
Coverage times and amounts (34%): We compare each company’s waiting periods and maximum reimbursement amounts for baggage, travel and weather delays. Companies that offer customers reimbursement after fewer than 12 hours of delays earn full points in this category. We also reward travel insurance providers that cover more than 100% of trip costs in the event of cancellations or interruptions.
Company service and reviews (17%): We look for indicators that a company is well-prepared to respond to customer needs. Companies with an established global resource network, 24/7 emergency hotline, mobile app, multiple ways to file a claim and concierge services score higher in this category. We assess reputation by evaluating consumer reviews, third-party financial strength and customer experience ratings, specifically from AM Best and the Better Business Bureau (BBB).

For more information, read our full travel insurance methodology.
A.M. Best Disclaimer
 For more information, read our full travel insurance methodology. A.M. Best Disclaimer If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Tom Adams is a writer based in the U.K. who specializes in travel advice. Previously, he has written for sports brands, travel blogs and even an archaeological study. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.