How do you handle a medical emergency on your next vacation?  Colleen Dolan never imagined that a medical emergency would ruin her recent vacation in Greece. But while she was touring the Petrified Forest of Lesvos, she fell and broke her ankle and both wrists. "I had to have a metal plate with eight screws surgically implanted in one wrist," recalls Dolan, a retired educational therapist from San Rafael, Calif. Dolan's trip was over. She spent three days in a hospital in Mytilene, Greece, before flying home to California. Her story is every traveler's worst nightmare. More Americans are traveling abroad now than at any time since the pandemic. So what are the worst-case scenarios for travelers in today's world? How do you avoid them or prevent them from becoming costly? And what's the best advice for managing a medical emergency when you're traveling internationally? "Many people are concerned with having insurance coverage that will get them back home in case of a serious emergency," says Curt Carlson, senior vice president at Trawick International. But Carlson says not all travel insurance is created equal. Although you can find evacuation and repatriation coverage in just about every travel insurance plan, "it is probably the least understood and most oversold benefit in travel protection," he says. Joe Cronin, president of International Citizens Insurance, says this summer is particularly risky because more people are traveling. "Travel to off-the-beaten-path destinations has been increasingly popular," he says. People going to these places should make sure they have the right insurance, and especially medical evacuation. "Many of these destinations are not likely to have adequate healthcare facilities, and it can get quite costly to pay for a medical evacuation, potentially costing up to $100,000," he warns. So how do you make sure you have all the coverage you need before you leave for your big international trip? Before we get to the answer, let's find out what happened with Dolan in Greece. Dolan's accident wasn't the biggest shock. It was arriving at the hospital and realizing that she didn't have travel insurance. "My travel agent never purchased the travel insurance I had requested," she says. "That taught me a lesson: Always get an itemized invoice from your travel agent." The error cost her $5,000 — at least initially. Christina Tunnah, general manager of marketing and brands at World Nomads, describes this as the "worst-case scenario," adding that an accident or medical emergency can be prohibitively expensive for those traveling without insurance. "Situations also get especially complex — and costly — in rural places with inadequate facilities and no means of emergency evacuation," she adds. Fortunately, Dolan received excellent care at the Greek hospital. When it came time to pay the bill, the hospital waved her off. "They said, 'No money. We have social medicine,'" she recalls. But then they discovered she was an American, and that changed. Her surgery was free, but she had to pay a $1,072 room fee for three nights. "My medical coverage with Kaiser Permanente in California reimbursed me when I returned," she says. Dolan was lucky. Although she lost 10 days of her vacation, she didn't have to pay for her surgery or medical care, which could have set her back tens of thousands of dollars. And if she'd had to be evacuated from the Petrified Forest in a helicopter — well, that could have cost her hundreds of thousands of dollars. "Summer adventures can lead to emergency injuries that can be costly, especially if your injury is the result of an activity your insurance provider won't cover, like rock climbing, scuba diving or paragliding," says Dan Richards, CEO of The Global Rescue Companies, which provides medical, security, evacuation and travel risk management services. As I mentioned before, more Americans will travel abroad than any summer since the pandemic. (Here’s my definitive guide to health and safety when you travel.) Some experts are saying that international travel could set a record. So what awaits you? Cai Glushak, the international medical director at AXA Partners, says medical problems range from annoying to life-threatening. "Common summer travel emergencies that we encounter include heat stroke, diving injuries off rocks or cliffs resulting in catastrophic spinal cord and head injuries, motorized and non-motorized vehicle injuries including watercraft, and insect-borne viruses such as malaria, dengue, and zika," he says. You can avoid most of them, including some of the new ones. "Some new threats have recently arisen, such as tick-borne encephalitis in forested areas of Europe," he says. "Many of them are preventable by a vaccine." You never know what might happen. A few months ago, while I was skiing in Arosa, Switzerland, I crashed and ended up in the hospital with a broken pelvis and two cracked ribs. I had been skiing for five decades and I'd never so much as strained a muscle on the slopes. Good thing I was covered by my insurance, GeoBlue. But I learned my lesson: If it can happen to me, it can happen to anyone. If you're headed overseas, you need a minimum of $50,000 in emergency medical coverage, according to John Gobbels, chief operating officer of air medical transport membership program Medjet. "Most policies also come with medical evacuation to the nearest hospital in an emergency, which can be life-saving," he adds. But check to make sure you know what is and is not covered. Medical emergencies are surprisingly common, according to Eugene Delaune, an ER physician who is also a senior medical consultant at Allianz Partners. And that's when the trouble starts. "What travelers often don't realize is that once you arrive at the hospital, in many locales, the medical staff may not see you immediately because they may demand that you pay for care up front," he says. Imagine you need medical attention. You go to the nearest hospital and they refuse to see you. What do you do? If it's not a medical emergency, Delaune recommends visiting either the next nearest hospital or one of the larger public facilities or one of the larger public facilities if you're in a big city. "Sometimes, the larger public facilities are more likely to provide care without payment up front," he says. "In other locations, they will take you in and provide care but they will also confiscate your passport and hold it until payment is received for care provided. It is almost as if you are held hostage in the hospital, as you are unable to travel until you can provide payment." Here are some expert tips on handling a medical emergency. Keep the number of your doctor, your health insurance and your travel insurance company on your person. This is particularly important if you're traveling solo, say experts. "Some of the worst scenarios happen to solo travelers," says Olivia Bailey, manager of assist & medical management at Seven Corners. "The sooner you get your travel insurance company involved, the more likely you'll be able to contain costs and return home." That's the advice of Tim Dodge, vice president of marketing at Arch RoamRight. "In general, many medical insurance plans do not cover care received outside the United States," he says. "Travelers may want to consider a travel insurance plan to help cover medical emergencies when traveling internationally." Pallavi Sadekar says you should familiarize yourself with the healthcare system in the country you're visiting. "This includes having a basic understanding of the local healthcare system, having the necessary insurance coverage, and carrying a list of important medical information," says Sadekar, the head of operations at VisitorGuard.com. "Be prepared, stay informed, and seek assistance as soon as possible in the event of an emergency." William Brady, an emergency medicine specialist at UVA Health in Charlottesville, Va., says one of the biggest mistakes travelers make is trying to salvage their vacation when a member of their party falls ill. "Be smart and do not travel if you or a loved one is unwell," he says. If you have to travel to reach a medical facility, don't engage in activities that could put you or your loved ones at risk of injury or a worsening of your illness, he adds. Having the right travel insurance is important, but it may not be enough. Carrie Pasquarello, CEO of Global Secure Resources, a risk mitigation and threat assessment planning company, recommends an extra layer of protection through a medical evacuation membership such as Medjet. "The best proactive strategy for travelers is to have a Medjet membership as a backup plan for the worst-case scenario of being admitted to a hospital abroad," says Pasquarello. A company like Medjet works on top of your travel insurance to ensure you are medically evacuated. These companies arrange for air medical transport to get you moved to your hospital at home. Bottom line: With a little preparation — and the right insurance policy — you can avoid the worst consequences of a medical emergency. But there are some things you can't prevent. That's travel for you. "Be as prepared as possible," says Tyler Verdeyen, vice president of specialty risk and response at Global Guardian. "And expect the unexpected."  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.