


Travel Daily - Informing, connecting and developing the world’s travel industry professionals.

  Leading travel insurance provider tifgroup has opened up its market-leading policies to travel agents and tour operators giving them access to products supported by Protectif, the company’s bespoke medical screening tool. The company re-entered the UK consumer market in January last year in partnership with Collinson Insurance. They were forced to pause sales after their German insurer URV pulled out of the UK market following Brexit. Before the pandemic, tifgroup were the UK’s leading travel insurance provider, underwriting £160m of gross written premium moving into 2020. Travel agents and tour operators can now use a unique booking system for the Suretravel.co.uk brand, to sell travel insurance directly to their customers. In return they will get up to 15% commission on any policies sold. The brand uses the award-winning medical screening tool, Protectif. Protectif captures more detail about a customer’s individual circumstances and condition(s) than other screening tools, allowing it to more accurately assess the risks and offer a fairer price. The medical screening tool has helped other brands in the market, including specialist medical provider Insurancewith, to provide affordable travel cover to those with serious or complex medical conditions. The system works by asking customers to list prescribed medication and then the conditions they are linked to, which ensures nothing is accidentally forgotten. It also helps treating doctors if customers are taken ill or injured abroad. “We’re excited to be back in the travel provider space, which was an important part of the business until we had to pause sales,” said Amber Moon, Suretravel Manager. “Our new quote system gives agents easy access to travel insurance products, especially for customers with pre-existing medical conditions who may find it hard to find suitable, affordable insurance elsewhere. “It is especially attractive to customers with pre-existing medical conditions, who may be concerned about finding affordable travel insurance policies in the post-pandemic era. “We strongly believe that there is a real need for choice in the UK market for travel insurance policies and related services – particularly those aimed at helping consumers with medical conditions find suitable insurance at affordable prices, allowing them to travel.” Protectif is a proprietary tool, unique to tifgroup’s products, and isn’t available elsewhere. To sign up to the new service as an Introducer Appointed Representative (IAR), agents and tour operators are given a unique code or unique link straight to the Suretravel quote journey. It can then be added to their website or be shared with their customers, giving them up to 15% commission for any sales generated.   ...there are many ways you can work with us to advertise your company and connect to your customers. Our team can help you design and create an advertising campaign We can also organize a real life or digital event for you and find thought leader speakers as well as industry leaders, who could be your potential partners, to join the event. We also run some awards programmes which give you an opportunity to be recognized for your achievements during the year and you can join this as a participant or a sponsor. Let us help you drive your business forward with a good partnership! Yes, contact me 
I want to download the media kit  
		Comments are closed.	 

						 POPULAR STORIES					
  

				Philippines named best diving destination at 2024 Diving…			

  

				Wonderfruit 2024 names Klook as official travel platform			

  

				Central Africans wanting to travel through Spain need to get…			

  

				‘Lufthansa Allegris’ takes off to Shanghai 			

 Welcome, Login to your account. 




Sign in with Google

  Powered by wp-glogin.com Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you. Welcome back, Log in to your account. Recover your password. SIGN UP FOR FREE Be part of our community of seasoned travel and hospitality industry professionals from all over the world.