The Forbes Advisor editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive payment from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Advisor site. This comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The payments we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles. These “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Advisor. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
                Updated: Feb 28, 2024, 7:42am 
             Edited By Edited By Travel Guard travel insurance offers unlimited emergency medical coverage for travellers under age 54, and a still-generous $10 million for those 55 and up. There’s also a number of add-ons for certain plans if you’re a business traveller, taking a golf or ski vacation, or flying to a destination wedding. And if you’re worried about having to cancel, the Cancel For Any Reason upgrade gives peace of mind. But there are downsides. The mail-in claims process is clunky, and the upgrades aren’t available for all plans. Plus Travel Guard travel insurance isn’t currently offered in Quebec. Still, Travel Guard offers comprehensive coverage for a competitive price.
 Travel Guard travel insurance offers unlimited emergency medical coverage for travellers under age 54, and a still-generous $10 million for those 55 and up. There’s also a number of add-ons for certain plans if you’re a business traveller, taking a golf or ski vacation, or flying to a destination wedding. And if you’re worried about having to cancel, the Cancel For Any Reason upgrade gives peace of mind. But there are downsides. The mail-in claims process is clunky, and the upgrades aren’t available for all plans. Plus Travel Guard travel insurance isn’t currently offered in Quebec. Still, Travel Guard offers comprehensive coverage for a competitive price. AIG Travel, Inc., a member of American International Group, Inc., is a worldwide leader in travel insurance and global assistance. Travel Guard is the marketing name for AIG’s portfolio of travel insurance and related services for both leisure and business travellers. Medical and security services are provided through a network of wholly-owned assistance centres located in Asia, Europe and the Americas. Travel Guard Travel Insurance is underwritten by Toronto-based AIG Insurance Company of Canada. Travel Guard Travel Insurance is currently not available for Quebec residents. Here are the key types of travel insurance coverage offered in Travel Guard Travel Insurance plans: Travel Guard Travel Insurance offers four plans for travelling outside of Canada. Platinum All Inclusive Package: This is the most comprehensive plan offered by Travel Guard with unlimited emergency medical insurance for travellers under age 59, and $10 million in coverage for travellers 60 and up. It includes coverage for unforeseen medical emergencies, trip cancellation and interruption, flight and travel accident coverage, and baggage loss, damage and delay insurance. Eligible emergency medical expenses include: Medical benefits also include coverage to bring someone to your bedside, expenses for meals, hotel accommodations and associated expenses if you are hospitalized and/or if a medical delay prevents you from returning home, repatriation expenses and return of your remains if you die. The Platinum All Inclusive Package offers two optional add-ons: Cancel For Any Reason (CFAR) and Cruise and Tour Protector coverage. The Platinum All Inclusive Package is for travellers age 74 and younger. Gold Emergency Medical Plan: If you’re only worried about medical emergencies while travelling, this benefit offers all of the medical coverage listed above. The Gold Emergency Medical Plan offers unlimited medical coverage for travellers aged 54 and under, and $10 million in coverage for travellers 55 and older. Silver Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Interruption Package: This coverage option reimburses you for insured non-refundable travel expenses (such as hotels or prepaid excursions) if you have to cancel, interrupt, or delay your trip due to a covered reason. This benefit also includes baggage loss, damage and delay coverage, flight and travel accident coverage, and provides a specific benefit for a missed connection. The Silver Deluxe Trip Cancellation/Interruption Package includes six optional add-ons: Cruise and Tour Protector, Expanded Benefits Upgrade, Golf Protector Coverage, Ski Protector Coverage, Business Protector Coverage and Collision Damage Waiver Coverage. Gold Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Interruption Package: This coverage option offers the same benefits as the Silver package but some have higher payouts. The Gold Deluxe Trip Cancellation/Interruption Package includes one optional add-on: Cruise and Tour Protector. There is also a Change of Mind benefit that reimburses your cancellation penalties up to $400 if you cancel a trip because you changed your mind, provided your trip has been paid in full. We’ve highlighted the key benefits of Travel Guard Travel Insurance for the four single trip plans to help you identify which coverage is the best fit for you. 
 The price of a Travel Guard Travel Insurance plan depends on factors such as the cost of your trip, your age, your answers to a medical questionnaire, if required, and the amount of coverage you choose. Here are some examples of the cost for Travel Guard Travel Insurance single trip plans for healthy travellers based in Ontario: 
 Emergency medical: $1 million
Cancel For Any Reason: Yes, 75%
Baggage insurance (maximum): $2,000 Related: TravelSafe Travel Insurance Review Emergency medical: $5 million
Cancel For Any Reason: Yes, 50% to 75%
Baggage insurance (maximum): $1,500 Related: CAA Travel Insurance Review Emergency medical: $10 million
Cancel For Any Reason: Yes, 50%
Baggage insurance (maximum): $500 Related: TuGo Travel Insurance Review Travel Guard offers several optional add-ons for its travel insurance. The following six add-ons are available with the Silver Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Interruption Package: Business Protector coverage: This upgrade offers the following added benefits if you are travelling for business and need to make a claim under these scenarios: 
 Cruise and Tour Protector: If your pre-booked cruise is cancelled or if the dates are changed by the cruise company or tour operator, you are eligible for the following benefits: 
 Expanded Benefits Upgrade: This upgrade offers the following increased benefits and added benefits under these scenarios: 
 Golf Protector coverage: This upgrade offers the following added benefits if you are playing golf on your trip and need to make a claim under these scenarios: 
 Ski Protector coverage: This upgrade offers the following added benefits if you are skiing or snowboarding on your trip and need to make a claim under these scenarios: 
 Collision Damage Waiver coverage: The benefit offers $50,000 in coverage if you need to make a claim due to physical loss or damage to a rental car during your trip. If you purchase the Platinum All Inclusive Package, you can purchase the following add-ons: If you purchase the Gold Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Interruption Package, you can purchase the following add-on: There are no add-ons with the Gold Emergency Medical Plan. Using the example of the couple travelling to Mexico, here is the cost of the optional add-ons when selecting the Silver Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Trip Interruption Package with a base premium of $134: 
 No. Yes. You can buy multi-trip annual insurance if you travel more than once a year for multiple individual trips. Travel Guard offers nine, 16, 30 and and 60-day annual plans for emergency medical coverage. Here’s how the cost compares for a single-trip emergency medical plan and the four multi-trip annual plans: 
 Worldwide emergency travel assistance is available 24/7 by calling the LiveTravel hotline. When you have a travel medical emergency, the following support may be available: Depending on your coverage, worldwide travel assistance services include: Personal security assistance includes: The Gold and Silver Deluxe Trip Cancellation & Interruption Packages also offers the following Concierge Services: You must contact the Assistance Centre before receiving medical treatment or you may have to pay 30% of the eligible medical expenses. If you are unable to call, you must get someone to call on your behalf. Yes. Travel Guard offers Cancel For Any Reason coverage as an optional add-on with the Platinum All Inclusive Package. If you are prevented from taking your trip for any reason not otherwise covered by the trip plan, Travel Guard will reimburse you for up to 75% of your prepaid, forfeited and non-refundable payments or deposits. This add-on must be purchased at the same time the base plan is purchased, and within 15 days of the initial trip payment. Any additional payments must also be insured under this coverage within 15 days. To be eligible for coverage, you need to cancel your trip 48 hours or more prior to your departure date. No. In general, a pre-existing condition is defined as any sickness, injury or medical condition that existed before the start of your coverage, whether or not diagnosed by a physician, that you showed signs or symptoms of or received medical attention for. With a Travel Guard travel insurance plan, any pre-existing conditions must be stable and controlled for 90 days before the start of your policy to be eligible for coverage. In additional, Travel Guard will not cover any losses if you: According to Travel Guard, a medical condition is considered stable and controlled when there has been: Travel Guard offers a Pre-existing Medical Condition Exclusion Waiver whereby the company will waive any pre-existing medical condition exclusions if: In addition to pre-existing condition exclusions, there are a number of scenarios not covered by travel insurance and it’s critical to know what not to do before you make a claim. The following are general exclusions to coverages provided by Travel Guard travel insurance: There may be additional exclusions specifically for medical, trip cancellation/interruption/delay and baggage coverage. To be eligible for Travel Guard Travel Insurance you must: In addition, the following makes you ineligible for Travel Guard Travel Insurance: You can file a claim by contacting Travel Guard by telephone at the numbers listed on the website depending on the province or territory you are calling from. The insurer will provide the forms for your claim within 15 days of you initiating the claim. However, if you haven’t received the required forms during that time, you can submit your proof of claim in the form of a written statement outlining the cause or nature of the accident, sickness or disability that caused the claim. If you are making an emergency medical claim, you must provide original receipts for incurred expenses, including those for subsistence allowance expenses. For a trip cancellation/trip interruption/trip delay claim, you may be asked to provide: If you are making a baggage insurance and personal effects claim, you may need to provide: If you are making a Rental Car Collision Damage Protection Benefit claim, you may be asked to provide: You must file your claim with us within 30 days of the loss or damage in the case of a claim under Rental Car Protector Coverage. According to the company, benefits for emergency medical expenses, emergency evacuation and repatriation of remains services may be payable directly to the provider of the services, however the provider, “must comply with the statutory provision for direct payment and may not have been paid from any other sources.” The insurer adds it will “make every effort, though we cannot guarantee, to pay providers directly.” Yes. Your coverage is automatically extended for up to 72 hours if your return home is delayed due to a transportation issue. If you or your travelling companion are hospitalized, your coverage is extended for the period of hospitalization, plus up to 120 hours after discharge. If you or your travelling companion are too sick to travel on your return date but do not require hospitalization, your coverage is automatically extended for up to 120 hours after your planned return date. If you want to stay longer on your trip, you can extend your coverage if you apply and pay the premium before your original return date as long as you have not made a claim and there is no reason to make a claim. Yes. Travellers over age 55 are required to complete a medical questionnaire to determine your eligibility and rate category. Yes. You must be a minimum of 15 days old and no more than 85 years old. In general, if you purchase cancellation coverage, it begins the day you buy your policy and ends the day you make a claim or leave on your trip. Your medical and interruption coverage, if purchased, begins when you leave home. Your delay coverage begins once an insured risk prevents you from returning home as scheduled. Yes. Travel Guard offers a 10-day Right to Examine period during which you can review your policy and cancel if you’re not satisfied with it. You can request a refund for the all-inclusive plan up to the departure date as long as you have not made a claim against the policy. A refund will also be issued if your travel supplier cancels or changes your trip and all your insured trips costs are refunded without penalty. With an emergency medical plan, you can request a refund if you have a minimum of four unused days of coverage. No refund will be issued if you have initiated, reported or made a claim against your policy. 
						Fiona Campbell is a Staff Writer for Forbes Advisor Canada. She started her career on Bay Street, but followed her love for research, writing and a good story into journalism. She is the former editor of Bankrate Canada, and has over 20 years of experience writing for various publications, including the Globe and Mail, Financial Post Business, Advisor’s Edge, Mydoh.ca and more.
					