You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Jul 12, 2024, 4:01am Have a question for Michelle Megna or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Michelle Megna, Amy Danise and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. We recommend Travelex’s Travel Select plan for families because it provides coverage for children at no extra cost (when accompanied by an adult covered by the policy). Another reason why we think it’s an option to consider: Its average price is also among the lowest among the companies we evaluated. Travelex Insurance Services is a travel insurance company that provides a wide range of plans for both domestic and international travelers. Here are key types of benefits included in Travelex travel insurance policies: Here’s a comparison of Travelex’s Travel Basic, Travel Select and Travel America plans. Travel assistance services are included in all plans. This budget-friendly plan offers pre- and post-departure coverage with adequate limits. Benefits include trip cancellation, trip delay, trip interruption, emergency evacuation, emergency medical insurance, and baggage and personal effects coverage. Your U.S. health plan may provide little or no coverage outside of the country and Medicare isn’t accepted in other countries, which is why travel medical insurance is essential if going abroad. If you’re on a domestic trip, your U.S. health insurance can apply if you’re hurt or get sick. Some travel insurance companies make you file a claim first with your health insurance company. With the Basic plan, medical expense coverage is primary, which means claims are filed first with Travelex, not your health insurance company. If you purchase a Travel Basic plan within 15 days of your first trip payment, coverage for trip cancellation includes financial default—if your airline, cruise line, or tour operator goes bankrupt—and cancellation for business reasons if you’re required to work during the dates of your trip. “Cancel for any reason” coverage is not available with the Travel Basic plan. Travel Select is Travelex’s highest-rated plan according to Forbes Advisor’s ratings of the best travel insurance. It includes all the coverage in the Basic plan, with higher coverage amounts and optional add-ons. The Travel Select plan also includes sports equipment delay coverage. Another benefit of the Travel Select plan is the option to request a pre-existing medical condition exclusion waiver, if you have an existing condition you would like covered while you travel. These waivers can be requested at no charge with Travel Select, provided you purchase your travel insurance within 15 days of making your first trip payment. The Travel Select plan also offers optional upgrades not available with the Basic plan: Additionally, children under age 17 are included under a Travel Select plan for free, as long as their trip cost doesn’t exceed yours. The Travel America plan from Travelex is designed for the domestic traveler and groups taking a trip of no more than 14 days. It includes all the standard types of travel insurance coverage as the Basic and Select plans, with varying differences in coverage amounts. Most notably, Travel America has caps on the maximum amounts for trip cancellation and trip interruption. The Travel America plan has shared benefits for up to eight travelers, meaning the plan’s coverage limits are shared across all the people listed on the policy. It also includes $1,000 in emergency pet medical expenses, with a $50 deductible. Additionally, it provides $10,000 in “pet return” coverage, which helps pay for transportation for your pet if you were to get sick or injured during your trip and were unable to travel. You can be covered for pre-existing medical conditions if you buy the Travel America insurance plan within three days of your final trip payment. You can get this pre-existing condition coverage only if you are physically able to travel at the time you purchase the policy. The Travel Med Plan is for last-minute getaways and trips with few pre-paid expenses. It provides these post-departure benefits at the following limits and is primary coverage: Optional Travelex upgrades, depending on your plan, include: What you pay for travel insurance generally varies by your age and trip cost. Here are examples of prices for Travelex’s Travel Select plan. Travelex plans include access to its 24/7 travel assistance hotline. Here are some of the services provided: You can download the Travel On app to receive real-time security alerts, details on food and water safety at your destination, ATM locations, tipping protocols and more. All travel insurance plans contain exclusions, so it’s good to review the fine print and understand what your travel insurance policy doesn’t cover. Here are some examples of exclusions to emergency medical coverage for Travelex’s Travel Select plan: You can file a claim on the company website, or call the Travelex customer service number for claims: 855-205-6054. Forbes Advisor researched and analyzed 39 policies to find the best travel insurance. When companies had more than one travel insurance policy we used the highest-scoring plan. Ratings are based on the following metrics. Cost (25% of score): We analyzed the average cost for each travel insurance policy for trips to popular destinations: Missed connection coverage (10% of score): Travel insurance policies were awarded more points if they include missed connection benefits of $1,000 per person or more. Medical expenses (10% of score): Travel insurance policies with travel medical expense benefits of $250,000 and up per person were given the highest points. Medical evacuation (10% of score): Travel insurance policies with medical evacuation expense benefits of $500,000 and up per person were given the highest points. “Cancel for any reason” upgrade (10%): Travel insurance policies received points if “cancel for any reason” upgrades are offered. More points were awarded for “cancel for any reason” upgrades with reimbursement levels of 75%. Baggage delay required waiting time (5%): Policies with baggage delay benefits kicking in at 12 hours or less were given points. Cancel for work reasons: (5%): Travel insurance plans that allow cancellations for work reasons were awarded points. Hurricane and weather (5%): Policies received points if the required waiting period for hurricane and weather coverage was 12 hours or less. “Interruption for any reason” upgrade (5%): Policies were awarded points if they offered an “interruption for any reason” upgrade. Pre-existing medical condition exclusion waiver (5%): Points were given to policies that cover pre-existing medical conditions (if purchased within a required timeframe after the first trip deposit). Travel delay required waiting time (5%): Policies with travel delay benefits kicking in after six hours or less were given points. Trip interruption travel insurance (5%): Points were given if trip interruption reimbursement is 150% or higher. Pre-existing medical condition exclusion waivers are available from Travelex if you purchase a Travel Select or Travel America plan. This waiver means that pre-existing conditions won’t be excluded from coverage. For example, Travelex’s Travel Select policy can cover pre-existing conditions if you buy the plan within 15 days of your initial trip deposit. You also must insure the full value of your non-refundable trip cost and you must have been medically able to travel when you bought the plan. Travelex provides the option to upgrade to “cancel for any reason” (CFAR) coverage on its Travel Select plan. “Cancel for any reason” coverage gives you the option to cancel for a reason not listed in the travel insurance plan’s base trip cancellation reasons. For example, you may want to cancel your trip because it’s going to rain during your beach vacation. Make sure to check the rules for CFAR for the plan you’re buying. For example, Travelex’s Travel Select plan will reimburse you for 75% of your lost trip costs under a CFAR claim. You must buy the “cancel for any reason” upgrade within 15 days of making your initial trip deposit. And to make a CFAR claim you must cancel at least two days before your departure date. Travelex offers two flight insurance plans: Flight Insure and Flight Insure Plus. These flight insurance plans are designed for a last-minute trip or quick getaway weekend. Get the Forbes Advisor newsletter for helpful tips, news, product reviews and offers from a name you can trust.