or Remember me or  Discover today published its first Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report. The 2022 ESG Report outlines the progress made since the company’s release of last year’s Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) Report and the impact created across social, environmental and governance areas. In addition to DE&I North Star Goals, the report includes new social impact and environmental sustainability goals.   “The release of our first ESG report is a significant milestone for us at Discover and communicating our ESG efforts transparently is a priority. The activities highlighted in this report allow us to fully deliver on our mission to help people have brighter financial futures. Long before we had formal programs, actions led by our Discover Values and Behaviors gave us a strong foundation for progress,” said Matt Johanson, Chief ESG Officer & Senior Vice President of Social Impact at Discover.   At the core of the ESG report is DE&I and Social Impact and the company’s commitment to lead efforts that use the company’s platform of jobs, products, business spend, philanthropy, and more to advance equity, motivate others to effect change, and help people achieve brighter financial futures.   “Our team continues to work tirelessly in pursuit of achieving our DE&I North Star Goals, and I’m proud of the progress we are making. We’re committed to creating real change and are well-positioned to positively impact our employees, customers, and communities through our DE&I and ESG efforts,” said Jonita Wilson, Chief Diversity Officer at Discover.   Highlights from the 2022 report:   Diversity   Equity   Inclusion   Social Impact   Environmental Sustainability   Governance   For more information on Discover’s ESG efforts and to read the full report, visit https://www.discover.com/company/esg/2022-esg-report/home/ About Discover  Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a digital banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company issues the Discover® card, America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers private student loans, personal loans, home loans, checking and savings accounts and certificates of deposit through its banking business. It operates the Discover Global Network® comprised of Discover Network, with millions of merchants and cash access locations; PULSE®, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International®, a global payments network with acceptance around the world. For more information, visit www.discover.com/company.   View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230510005053/en/ Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today