According to Benzinga Pro, during Q1, Treehouse Foods THS earned $15.20 million, a 164.96% increase from the preceding quarter. Treehouse Foods's sales decreased to $894.80 million, a 10.18% change since Q4. Treehouse Foods collected $996.20 million in revenue during Q4, but reported earnings showed a $23.40 million loss.  Return on Capital Employed is a measure of yearly pre-tax profit relative to capital employed by a business. Changes in earnings and sales indicate shifts in a company's ROCE. A higher ROCE is generally representative of successful growth of a company and is a sign of higher earnings per share in the future. A low or negative ROCE suggests the opposite. In Q1, Treehouse Foods posted an ROCE of 0.01%. Keep in mind, while ROCE is a good measure of a company's recent performance, it is not a highly reliable predictor of a company's earnings or sales in the near future.  ROCE is a powerful metric for comparing the effectiveness of capital allocation for similar companies. A relatively high ROCE shows Treehouse Foods is potentially operating at a higher level of efficiency than other companies in its industry. If the company is generating high profits with its current level of capital, some of that money can be reinvested in more capital which will generally lead to higher returns and, ultimately, earnings per share (EPS) growth.  For Treehouse Foods, the positive return on capital employed ratio of 0.01% suggests that management is allocating their capital effectively.  Effective capital allocation is a positive indicator that a company will achieve more durable success and favorable long-term returns. Treehouse Foods reported Q1 earnings per share at $0.68/share, which beat analyst predictions of $0.4/share. This article was generated by Benzinga's automated content engine and reviewed by an editor. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Sort by estimates, projected upside, profit surprises, and more to easily find new stocks to invest in or check up on your portfolio. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.