People with low testosterone may be able to raise their levels by eating certain foods. Examples of foods that can help boost testosterone include ginger, fatty fish, and some vegetables. Testosterone is a sex hormone that plays a role in fertility, sexual function, bone health, and muscle mass. A person’s testosterone level will fall naturally with age, but some medical conditions, lifestyle choices, and other factors can influence the amount of this hormone in the body. In this article, we list the best foods for increasing testosterone levels. We also describe products to avoid and other ways to increase testosterone production. The best way to boost testosterone levels is to eat a nutritionally balanced diet – prioritizing whole foods and limiting alcohol, saturated fats, and highly processed products – reaching a moderate weight and exercising regularly. There is no single food that can instantly boost a person’s testosterone. However, the following examples may support testosterone production as part of a balanced diet. Zinc is essential for reproductive health, and oysters contain more zinc per serving than any other food. Males with severe zinc deficiency may develop hypogonadism, in which the body does not produce enough testosterone. They may also experience impotence or delayed sexual maturation. People can also find the mineral in: It is important to note that zinc and copper compete for absorption. Take care when choosing supplements to avoid consuming too much of either mineral. Vegetables such as spinach, Swiss chard, and kale are rich in magnesium, which may increase the body’s testosterone level.  Leafy green vegetables are also rich in many other nutrients and can help support a balanced diet. Other good dietary sources of magnesium are: Studies link low fat diets to low testosterone production. Fatty fish and fish oils are sources of ‘good’ fats, known as omega-3 fatty acids. These compounds have numerous health benefits, such as supporting heart and joint health. Eating fatty fish or taking fish oils in moderation can help increase a person’s total dietary fat intake in a healthy way. Examples of fish that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids include: Olive oil is a staple of the Mediterranean diet, which may have many health benefits, including a reduced risk of heart disease and cancer. The oil is rich in monounsaturated fat and vitamin E, an antioxidant. Similarly to fatty fish and fish oils, extra-virgin olive oil can help to increase a person’s overall fat intake, promoting testosterone production. Results of a small 2013 study indicate that the oil may boost serum testosterone levels in healthy adults. Onions are good sources of several nutrients and antioxidants. A 2019 study found that onion and onion extract can support hormone production, increase antioxidant activity, and may raise overall testosterone levels. People have used ginger for medicinal and culinary purposes for centuries. Aside from anecdotal evidence, test tube and animal studies have found that ginger extract may help increase testosterone production. However, it is important to note that these findings have not been confirmed in controlled human studies. Ginger supplementation may also help reduce blood pressure and increase blood flow – both risk factors for sexual dysfunction. The pomegranate is an age-old symbol of fertility and sexual function, and its antioxidant levels may support heart health and stress reduction. Also, results of an older study from 2012 indicate that pomegranate may boost testosterone levels. At the end of the study period, participants displayed an average 24% increase in salivary testosterone levels. They also experienced improvements in mood and blood pressure. Some foods can reduce a person’s testosterone levels. People looking to raise their levels may wish to avoid: Many frozen or prepackaged meals and snacks are processed foods. They offer little nutritional value and are often high in calories, salt, fat, and sugar. In particular, processed foods often contain high amounts of trans fats, which can reduce testosterone levels and impair testicular function. Foods and drinks canned or packaged in plastic can impact hormone levels. For example, this can occur when people ingest chemicals, such as bisphenol A (BPA) or bisphenol S, from water in plastic bottles or reheated food in plastic containers. However, it is important to note this is still an emerging area of study. However, drinking too much alcohol can markedly reduce testosterone levels and sexual function. Excessive alcohol consumption not only impairs hormone production but can also decrease sperm count and increase the risk of sexual dysfunction. Dietary changes may increase testosterone levels, and many lifestyle changes and medical treatments can help. A person can also increase their testosterone levels by: Below are frequently asked questions relating to testosterone and diet. Leafy greens, fatty fish, healthy oils, and onions can all increase testosterone production as part of a balanced diet. However, it is important to note that overall lifestyle is more important for testosterone levels than singular foods. Exercising, reducing stress, and getting enough sleep can all improve testosterone in the short term. However, long-term lifestyle changes are the best means of increasing levels. Limited studies show that drinking pomegranate juice may benefit free testosterone levels. There is a lack of research into specific vitamins and their effect on testosterone, as this is a difficult relationship to measure. A varied, nutritious diet should provide a good range of vitamins. A 2020 study found that only around 25% of supplements claiming to boost testosterone had data to support their claims. Around 10% contained ingredients that may negatively affect testosterone. There is no evidence that eggs lower testosterone. In fact, eating eggs may help support testosterone levels, particularly if the eggs are whole, containing the white and the yolk. A 2021 study found higher testosterone levels, knee extension, and handgrip strength in men who consumed whole eggs after resistance training than those who consumed just egg whites after the same exercise. Testosterone naturally reduces with age, but levels may also be low because of medical conditions or medications. Anyone experiencing symptoms of low testosterone should speak to a doctor. Certain foods, including oysters, leafy greens, fatty fish, and olive oil, may encourage the body to produce more testosterone. Foods that contain zinc, vitamin D, and magnesium may be key. A person can ensure they receive the right nutrients by following a balanced diet. Exercising and reducing stress can also help boost low testosterone. To see results, most people require a combination of approaches. Share this article Testosterone supplements may include injectable treatments or those that are transdermal, meaning people apply them to the skin. Learn more about… Doctors often recommend that men with testosterone deficiency lose weight. But according to a recent study, low-fat diets may reduce testosterone… Many people look to their diet to find ways of improving their sex lives. People sometimes try known aphrodisiacs to boost libido, or they might want… A new study found that compared to an equivalent amount of white rice, people eating baked potatoes experienced a modest decrease in fasting blood… The popular sugar substitute erythritol may increase a person's risk of blood clots, a new study finds. OUR BRANDS