A pivotal final regular season series began tonight for Georgia Tech as they welcomed Virginia to Atlanta. The Yellow Jackets are on the NCAA Tournament bubble and a series win would go a long way in helping out their chances.  UVA came into this game leading the ACC Coastal Division, but not by much, They also needed this series to ensure they won the division and hold off any challengers.  Luke Schmolke got the start for the Yellow Jackets and here is the lineup that was used:  1. 2B- Kristian Campbell 2. CF- Jake DeLeo  3. RF- Stephen Reid 4. IF- Angelo Dispigna 5. 3B- Drew Compton 6. 1B- John Giesler 7. DH- Jackson Finley 8. SS- Jadyn Jackson 9. C- Tyler Minnick It was not a great start for the Yellow Jackets.  A leadoff single got things started for the Cavaliers and then the runner advanced to second on a balk. A walk put two runners on base and then a three-run home run gave UVA a 3-0 lead in just the first inning. Schmolke got out of the inning only down three, but GT was already in a hole to start the game.  There was an opportunity in the bottom of the inning to get some of those runs back. Campbell got a leadoff single and then Reid was hit by a pitch with one out. With two runners on, there was a chance to close the gap, but two quick outs ended the inning.  Schmolke pitched a scoreless second, but the 3rd inning was a different story.  Georgia Tech could not put anything together in the 2nd and that gave way to the Cavs putting more runs on the board. A double and two walks loaded the bases for UVA and then a 3-RBI double made it 6-0.  Georgia Tech responded, however.  A leadoff walk from Minnick and two singles loaded the bases up for Georgia Tech and just like Virginia did in the top of the inning, Georgia Tech got a bases-clearing 3-RBI double from Dispigna to make it 6-3. Two lineouts ended the innings, but the Yellow Jackets had momentum in the game.  Georgia Tech looked like it was going to get out of the top of the fifth inning without allowing any runs after a one-out single, but another home run given up made it 8-3.  After a scoreless 4th for GT, Joseph Mannelly was sent in to replace Schmolke. He gave up one hit but did not allow any runs in his first inning.  Virginia tacked on two runs in the top of the 6th and it felt like the game was out of reach at that point.  Things only got worse for Georgia Tech though in a disappointing effort tonight. Tech did score two runs in the 8th to make it 10-5, but Virginia would get two more in the top of the ninth.  With this loss, there is going to be more pressure on Georgia Tech to win the final two games of the series. They need these wins against a quality opponent and tonight was not the start they were hoping for.  Game two is set for tomorrow at 6:00 p.m.   media for the latest on Georgia Tech Athletics! This article first appeared on Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets on SI and was syndicated with permission. More must-reads: Get the latest news and rumors, customized to your favorite sports and teams. Emailed daily. Always free!