CONOR McGREGOR was left in hysterics after Carl Froch claimed he could beat him in MMA.   The pair have rowed in the past but Froch took it one step further when he claimed he had the beating of the ex-UFC champion in the cage.  He said on his YouTube channel: “I'd fight Conor McGregor in the cage.  "I could be getting myself in trouble here or into a position I can't wiggle out of, but I think I'd take him on in the cage. He's too small.”  McGregor hit back with a laughing face and tweeted promoter Eddie Hearn: "Get this signed up lad." The Irishman, 34, has boxed professionally just once before, losing to American legend Floyd Mayweather, 45, in 2017.   Froch, 45, commentated that night and was full of criticism for McGregor. And the former featherweight and lightweight UFC champ fired back last year in a furious rant about Froch.   McGregor tweeted: “I’ll grab his head and twist it clean off at a 1er with my bare hands.  "Little wally of a thing I’ll slap you around you little toffee nose toss pot.” CASINO SPECIAL - BEST NEW CUSTOMER SIGN UP DEALS Froch - who retired from boxing in 2014 - insisted it would be a mismatch if the two were to fight in the ring.   He told Boxing UK: “He’s not a boxer, he doesn’t want to fight me, he’d get absolutely f***** up, but he might do the same to me in the cage and that is why we are both champion in our own right. “He knows, if he wants a roll around, he knows where to come, but he ain’t going to want this smoke.”  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/