The Texans' defense had its way with the Jaguars in the team's 30-17 win at Reliant Stadium on Monday Night Football. Check out this action-packed highlights recap. Texans WR Andre Johnson was ranked the 7th-best player in the league, and his peers explain why in this NFL Network video. Catch the best highlights from wide receiver Andre Johnson this season as he set a career best with 1,598 yards on 112 receptions. Clemson QB Deshaun Watson goes through drills at the 2017 NFL Scouting Combine.  Watch Clemson WR DeAndre Hopkins work out at the 2013 NFL Scouting Combine.  Houston Texans defensive end Jadeveon Clowney is voted the No. 32 player in the NFL by his peers on "Top 100 Players of 2018."  Houston Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson is voted the No. 50 player in the NFL by his peers on "Top 100 Players of 2018."  Former NFL QB Dan Orlovsky breaks down film on Texans QB Deshaun Watson.  NFL Network's Kay Adams explains how Texans safety Tyrann Mathieu will be the defensive player to have the biggest impact on his new team.  Texans head coach Bill O'Brien talks about the return of defensive end J.J. Watt.  Texans head coach Bill O'Brien talks about the return of QB Deshaun Watson and what sets him apart from other QBs.  Former NFL defensive back DeAngelo Hall explains why the Houston Texans are the New England Patriots' biggest challenger in the AFC in 2018.  Watch Texas Tech wide receiver Keke Coutee work out at the 2018 NFL Scouting Combine.  Former NFL RB Reggie Bush explains why Texans QB Deshaun Watson is the player he's most excited to see from the AFC South in 2018. Texans defensive end D.J. Reader talks about what the Titans are getting in new head coach Mike Vrabel, his personal goal for 2018, playing with defensive end J.J. Watt and the addition of safety Tyrann Mathieu. Texans defensive end D.J. Reader talks about playing with wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins and QB Deshaun Watson and how good Watson can be next season. NFL Network's Nate Burleson explains why he's excited for the return of Texans QB Deshaun Watson in 2018.  NFL Network's Mike Garafolo discusses why he believes the Houston Texans are the team to watch for the upcoming 2018 NFL season.  After receiving a late invitation to the scouting combine, Shaquem Griffin put on a performance that opened the eyes of many.  And he did it all - as he?s done everything for most of his life - with one hand.  NFL Network's Brian Baldinger lists his top 10 rookies from the 2017 season.  Check out the top ten plays from Houston Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson in the 2017 NFL season. Houston Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson joins 'Up to the Minute' to talk about his recovery, the future of the Texans and more.  The "Good Morning Football" crew talks about how good the Texans defense can be next season with the addition of defensive back Tyrann Mathieu.  Safetty Tyrann Mathieu signs one-year deal with Houston Texans.  Detroit Lions cornerback Johnson Bademosi intercepts QB Brock Osweiler. Watch Aaron Colvin's Week 13 TD against the Giants during the 2014 season.  
    Copyright © 2023 Houston Texans. All rights reserved. No portion of HoustonTexans.com may be duplicated, redistributed or manipulated in any form. By accessing any information beyond this page, you agree to abide by the HoustonTexans.com Privacy Policy, Code of Conduct, and Terms and Conditions.
  