New Love Island host Maya Jama looked in high spirits as she touched down in South Africa following her long-haul flight from London ahead of the Winter series Maya Jama has arrived in South Africa ahead of her Love Island debut next Monday. The former Glow Up presenter, who is taking over from former Love Island host Laura Whitmore, posted a collection of Instagram snaps of herself and her friendship group lapping up the sunshine before she gets stuck into work next week. The brunette bombshell, 28, looked in high spirits as she touched down in South Africa following her long-haul flight. Maya opted for a casual ensemble for the flight, but somehow still looked chic and runway ready after stepping off the plane as she sported a tight green crop top, an oversized hoodie, and a pair of matching joggers. The Bristolian babe went makeup free for her travels, and attempted to hide her tired eyes by wearing a pair of trendy sunglasses. Ahead of her Love Island debut, Maya threw up a peace sign at the cameras while at the airport before being chauffeured to her luxury accommodation.  Maya also shared some snaps from her luxurious flight, as well as a snippet of the stunning South African countryside after landing in Cape Town.  On her stories, Maya also shared a video of herself and her pal having a splash in her own private pool in her luxury accommodation.  The presenter, 28, will front the new series following the departure of Laura Whitmore, 37 - who announced that she would be stepping down from the ITV2 show last year. It comes following the release of a new trailer for Love Island. The show will return later this month, on Monday January 16, with islanders looking for love in a villa located in South Africa. The trailer features Maya - who is seen wearing a bedazzled jumpsuit - straddling a pink bucking bronco. Maya states in the 20-second clip: "It's time to grab love by the horns." She then adds: "I'm ready, are you?" Love Island returns on January 16 on ITV2 and ITVX. Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@mirror.co.uk or call us direct 0207 29 33033. Stay up-to-date with all the news from the Love Island villa this summer with our regular newsletter