 The FTSE (pronounced "footsie") is an acronym for the FTSE Russell Group, formerly the Financial Times Stock Exchange Group. "The FTSE" is also a short-hand reference to the FTSE 100, the main index that tracks prices on the London Stock Exchange.
  The London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) owns the FTSE Russell Group, which creates and manages various indexes that track global stocks, including the FTSE 100.
  The indexing division of the FTSE is comparable to that of Standard & Poor’s in the U.S. It creates and publishes indexes that the global financial markets can use as benchmarks. (An index is a hypothetical portfolio of stock holdings that serves as a representation, or benchmark, of the performance of a particular market segment.)
  The FTSE offers many indexes but its best known are the FTSE 100, which is comprised of the most highly capitalized blue-chip stocks listed on the London Stock Exchange, and the Russell 2000 Index, a small-cap stock market index of the smallest 2,000 stocks in the Russell 3000 Index.
  The FTSE Russell Group, established in 2015 after the merger of FTSE and Russell Investments, is a U.K.-based global provider of benchmark financial indexes, market data, and analytics.
  The FTSE has many other indexes that serve as benchmarks for various asset classes and investing strategies.
  The FTSE 100 is widely used in Europe. At its creation, in January 1984, the index had a base level of 1,000. It has since reached highs of over 7,000.
  Many market analysts, traders, and investors look to the FTSE 100 as a proxy for the performance of the wider U.K. stock market, similar to the way U.S. investors watch the Dow Jones and S&P 500 indexes.
  The level of the FTSE 100 is calculated using the total market capitalization of the constituent companies and the index value. Total market capitalization changes alongside individual share prices of the indexed companies throughout the trading day. When the FTSE 100 is quoted up or down, it is measured against the previous day’s market close.
  It is calculated continuously on every trading day—from 8:00 a.m. at the market opening until the 4:30 p.m. LSE close. A FTSE 100 decline means the value of the largest U.K.-listed companies has decreased. When the FTSE hits a new high, it means the total worth of all the indexed companies has increased.
  Readjustment of the index constituents, the companies that make up the FTSE 100, is undertaken every quarter, usually on the Wednesday following the first Friday in March, June, September, and December. Any changes to the underlying index constituents and their weighting come from the values of the companies taken at the close of business the night before the review.
  As of June 22, 2024, the top five FTSE 100 holdings by market cap were:
  The FTSE 100 is often considered a leading indicator of prosperity for companies in the U.K. and the U.K. economy in general. As such, it typically draws investors looking for exposure to big U.K. companies.
  While several of its listings are companies with homes outside of the U.K., it is mostly made up of U.K. companies and impacted by U.K. daily developments.
  A large prolific number of indexes are attached to the FTSE Group and the FTSE Russell brand. The FTSE Group's most popular indexes—in addition to the FTSE 100—are the FTSE 250, the FTSE 350, and the FTSE All-Share.
  Some of the other popular FTSE Russell indices include:
  Though you cannot directly invest in an index, you can invest in funds that replicate, track, or even short the FTSE index.
  Many of these are exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Examples of funds that track these indices are the Vanguard FTSE 100, the Vanguard FTSE 250, the iShares 350 U.K. Equity Index Fund, the iShares Core FTSE 100, and the Vanguard FTSE U.K. All Share Index Unit Trust.
 The most-quoted FTSE index is the FTSE 100, which tracks the top 100 companies by market cap in the U.K. If the financial media report that London stocks are up or down, they're talking about the movements of the FTSE 100. The U.S. version of this would be the S&P 500, which tracks the top 500 U.S. companies by market cap, or the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which tracks 30 prominent U.S. companies. The easiest way for Americans to invest in the FTSE is by investing in exchange-traded funds that track its indices, such as the Vanguard FTSE 100, the Vanguard FTSE 250, the iShares 350 U.K. Equity Index Fund, and the iShares Core FTSE 100. A stock exchange is a company that operates a marketplace where stocks are bought and sold. The New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq are examples. "Stock market" is an umbrella term that refers to all of the stocks that trade in a country or region.  The Financial Times Stock Exchange, now known as the FTSE Russell Group, provides a variety of indices that track different segments of the U.K. financial markets. Its most popular index, the FTSE 100, tracks the top 100 companies by market cap in the United Kingdom, similarly to how the S&P 500 works in the U.S.
  Investors outside the U.K. can gain exposure to these indices by investing in mutual funds or ETFs that track the indices.
 FTSE Russell. "Our Story." Yahoo! Finance. "FTSE 100." FTSE Russell. "FTSE U.K. Index Series," Page 5. London Stock Exchange. "FTSE 100: Constituents."