We are a health care and well-being company made up of a diverse team around the world dedicated to making health care work better through two distinct and complementary businesses: Optum and UnitedHealthcare. We are committed to charting a more sustainable path forward, helping build a modern, high-performing health system to improve access, affordability, outcomes and experiences for those who depend on it. 
                                                    Download the 2023 Sustainability Report to learn what sustainability means to us.
                                                 We foster an inclusive, equitable and diverse environment where all team members are appreciated, valued and able to reach their full potential. We are doctors, nurses, technologists, data scientists, care advocates, administrators, researchers and more. Explore our stories to see our mission at work, find recent news releases, and read research offering solutions for addressing health care challenges and opportunities. We are dedicated to continuously improving the quality of our performance for consumers, customers, care providers and our shareholders. 
                                                    UnitedHealth Group Reports Second Quarter 2024 Financial Results.
                                                 
                                                        Our mission is to help people live healthier lives and make the health system work better for everyone. We dedicate ourselves to this every day for our members by being there for what matters in moments big and small — from their earliest days to their working years and through retirement. 
                                                        We’re a leading health solution and care delivery organization. Our work is complex, but our mission is simple: create a healthier world, with you at the center. UnitedHealth Group is dedicated to continuously improving the quality of our performance for consumers, customers, care providers and our shareholders.   There are no upcoming events at this time. UnitedHealth Group Reports Second Quarter 2024 Results UnitedHealth Group Reports First Quarter 2024 Results Sustainability Report UnitedHealth Group Board Authorizes Payment of Quarterly Dividend UnitedHealth Group Reports Second Quarter 2024 Results UnitedHealth Group Provides Updates on Annual Shareholder Meeting, Board Actions Investor Documents Archived Earnings, Form 8K, 10Q, Proxy Statements SEC filings Annual Meeting of Shareholders Acquisitions & Splits Dividends & Stock
  Investor conference book Information site Materials   UnitedHealth Group, Inc. (UNH) UnitedHealth Group’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNH. Stock must be purchased through a broker. It cannot be purchased directly from UnitedHealth Group. 
            	A history of UnitedHealth Group’s dividend payments is available here. The company does not have a Dividend Reinvestment Program (DRIP).
			 
            	UnitedHealth Group, through Broadridge Financial Solutions, offers electronic delivery of company annual reports, proxy statements and proxy ballots, allowing shareholders to vote their proxies online. See our Shareholder resources page to register for electronic delivery of shareholder materials.
			 ANY WEBCAST, SPEECH, PRESENTATION MATERIAL OR OTHER INFORMATION AT THIS SITE IS ACCURATE ONLY AS OF THE DATE IT WAS MADE. UNITEDHEALTH GROUP HAS NO RESPONSIBILITY TO UPDATE ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THESE WEBCASTS, SPEECHES, OR PRESENTATION MATERIALS.
 
						UnitedHealth Group Q2 2024 Earnings Call
				 
 See more Forward-looking statements
 Statements that UnitedHealth Group publishes, including those on this Web site, may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute “forward-looking” statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties and involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. A list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the cautionary statements in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable securities laws.   Frances Jacobs
UnitedHealth Group
9900 Bren Road East, MN008-T930
Minnetonka, MN 55343
USA Phone: (800) 328-5979
Fax: (952) 936-1819
Online: contact us 
            ©2024 UnitedHealth Group. All rights reserved.
            
        