Welcome to the world, little one! Welcome to the world, little one! The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Welcome to the world, little one! Welcome to the world, little one! The Greensboro Science Center shared the fantastic news that a rare pygmy hippo has been born.  Top Stories Get the latest news stories of interest by clicking here With great delight and excitement, the Greensboro Science Center announced the calf's birth on Friday. The baby was born on Wednesday to hippos Holly and Ralph. This is the first pygmy hippo born at the center. "It was our intention to build an exhibit that would best support a breeding program. With only ten breeding pairs of pygmy hippos within [the Association of Zoos and Aquariums] institutions, we knew this would be a monumental milestone if Ralph and Holly were successful," said Jessica Hoffman, the GSC's vice president of animal health and welfare. Hoffman reported that Holly is being a very vigilant and caring first-time mother. "We can't wait for our GSC community to meet this latest addition," Hoffman said. Pygmy hippos weigh between 350 and 600 pounds, much smaller than the common river hippopotamus, which can weigh between 2,900 and 4,000 pounds. Pygmies are native to West Africa and are considered endangered. It's estimated that there are fewer than 2,500 adult pygmy hippos in the wild. "This birth will continue to spark greater awareness about protecting life's magnificent diversity within the animal kingdom," GSC's chief operating officer Beth Hemphill said. "Holly is a hippo with a bold personality, while Ralph is an easygoing individual, and we are excited to see what personality comes through in their offspring," said Mike Motsch, the GSC's Lead Pygmy Hippo Keeper. Beginning Friday at 2 p.m., viewing of the hippo indoor holding area will be intermittent and remain at the discretion of the GSC animal staff as they continue to monitor Holly and her new calf. More updates will be posted on the GSC's social media: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. Watch: NOWCAST streaming newscasts NAVIGATE: Home | Weather | Watch NOWCAST TV | Local News | National | News We Love 









North Carolina Zoo welcomes giraffe calf
















Man assaulted at house party, suspects in-custody, police say





















Winston-Salem State honors NASCAR driver and student Rajah Caruth before Charlotte races





















See it? Squish it: Officials warn about the spotted lanternfly and the damage it can do











 Keep up with local news, weather, and current events with the WXII app here   Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.