The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A global health care packaging manufacturer is investing millions in Forsyth County, officials said.  Nelipak Corporation is planning to invest $11.8 million in a flexible packaging production site in Winston-Salem, according to Gov. Roy Cooper. The company said it would create at least 36 new jobs in the county.  "Nelipak's decision is another great win for the state and Forsyth County," said Cooper. "North Carolina's growing life sciences businesses are expanding across the state to communities that have a strong business ecosystem, access to highly-skilled talent, and an excellent quality of life." Nelipak expects to make additional investments and job creation at the site over the next five years.  The company is headquartered in Cranston, Rhode Island. Nelipak manufactures rigid and flexible packaging solutions for medical devices, diagnostic, pharmaceutical drug delivery and other demanding health care applications.     "We are excited to locate this new facility in North Carolina," said Pat Chambliss, CEO of Nelipak. "Important factors in our decision to locate our first North American flexible packaging operation in Forsyth County and Winston-Salem include an attractive geographic area with an available new building, a skilled local workforce, a regional emphasis on training and education, and an overall favorable business climate for healthcare-related manufacturing. We appreciate the enthusiasm and support for this project in the local community and look forward to a long-term partnership." "Winston-Salem is another Carolina Core anchor that is using its rich manufacturing history to transform its innovation economy," said N.C. Commerce Secretary Machelle Baker Sanders.  A performance-based grant of $72,000 from the One North Carolina Fund will help with Nelipak's expansion to North Carolina. The One NC Fund provides financial assistance to local governments to help attract economic investment and create jobs.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.