Students from the University of Groningen, Netherlands, enjoyed gold medal success at last year’s International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) competition with their ‘Nanobuddy’ project to develop a genetic engineering solution to combat the transmission of avian flu (H5N1) among poultry. The group used  VIAFLO electronic pipettes donated by INTEGRA Biosciences to improve both the productivity and accuracy of their successful project. The  iGEM Groningen 2022 team aimed to develop a novel way of protecting birds against H5N1 with a biosynthetic alternative to inefficient vaccination efforts. The project identified a bacterium that is naturally present in chicken lungs and genetically modified it to secrete nanobodies – small, single-domain antibodies – that target and deactivate the virus. The nanobody-producing bacteria could then be delivered by an aerosol into the birds’ lungs for immunization. Lab Manager for iGEM Groningen 2022 described how the VIAFLO pipettes aided the group: “Various pipetting activities were required for our genetic engineering workflow, and working with the VIAFLO pipettes streamlined several steps, including serial dilutions, PCR, ELISAs, and western blotting. The pipettes are lightweight, with a well-balanced design that is both fun and ergonomic to work with. Our success at iGEM 2022 was largely thanks to the efficiency and accuracy provided by the VIAFLO pipettes in combination with  GRIPTIP pipette tips, which helped to maximize productivity by ensuring the tips stayed securely in place. The team really enjoyed using the pipettes – particularly the serial dilution feature, which saved us a lot of time and reduced our plastic waste – ultimately enabling us to achieve our goals for the competition.”  Ronald van der Meulen,Lab Manager for iGEM Groningen 2022 To find out more about INTEGRA, visit  www.integra-biosciences.com. Posted in: Cell Biology Tags: Antibodies, Bacteria, Flu, Genetic, Genetic Engineering, H5N1, Immunization, Lungs, Nanobodies, Pipetting, students, Virus Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA INTEGRA Biosciences. (2024, February 13). Award-winning project uses INTEGRA pipettes for success in international genetic engineering competition. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230413/Award-winning-project-uses-INTEGRA-pipettes-for-success-in-international-genetic-engineering-competition.aspx. MLA INTEGRA Biosciences. "Award-winning project uses INTEGRA pipettes for success in international genetic engineering competition". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230413/Award-winning-project-uses-INTEGRA-pipettes-for-success-in-international-genetic-engineering-competition.aspx>. Chicago INTEGRA Biosciences. "Award-winning project uses INTEGRA pipettes for success in international genetic engineering competition". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230413/Award-winning-project-uses-INTEGRA-pipettes-for-success-in-international-genetic-engineering-competition.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard INTEGRA Biosciences. 2024. Award-winning project uses INTEGRA pipettes for success in international genetic engineering competition. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230413/Award-winning-project-uses-INTEGRA-pipettes-for-success-in-international-genetic-engineering-competition.aspx. Cancel reply to comment 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback