Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Google has had autocompletion aids in apps like Gmail for a long while now, but it's about to turbocharge things with artificial intelligence and change how you write emails and documents.
                         Help Me Write is what it's calling this new generative AI feature, and it looks like it could be a pretty wild sea-change for regular users. We've got all the details you need about Help Me Write, right here.
                         Help Me Write is a new feature coming to Gmail and Google Docs that will help you to compose emails and sections of writing based on more limited inputs that you provide.
                         It's basically a massive expansion of the Smart Prompts system that exists at present, which can autocomplete your sentences based on its knowledge of what you normally write.
                         The system uses Google's large language model to compose its writing, and can be amended to suit a few different tones on offer once it's been used - the main three being Formalise, Elaborate and Shorten. A fourth, "I'm Feeling Lucky" selection is a nod to Google's one-tap search button.
                         We can see how Help Me Write works from Google's keynote at I/O 2023, and it's very simple. Taking Docs as our first example, the steps would be as follows once the feature is available.
                         In Gmail on your phone it's even simpler, with the steps as follows:
                         Google says that Help Me Write has actually been in the hands of some users since March, so it's definitely well on its way to a wider public release.
                         The system is now rolling out on both Android and iOS - but only to those enrolled in Google Labs, which you can sign up for right here using your Google account.
                         However, we don't have a firm launch date for when everyone will be able to use the feature. Rather, Google said at I/O that it would be available later in 2023.
                         Google announced Help Me Write with a focus on Gmail and Docs, so those are two services where we can be confident that Help Me Write will arrive.
                         Gmail in particular will see it offer a really useful ability to convert emails from shorthand into long-form paragraphs with tones that fit the occasion and message.
                         Of course, down the line, it's perfectly possible that Help Me Write will come to other Google apps, although these are the two that feature the most writing in the first place.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The Pencilera app brings a long-requested feature to iPad, allowing users to snap a photo with their Apple Pencil. PlayStation 5 games are more expensive than ever, but these tricks will make sure you never pay full price again. If you're on the fence about subscribing to either YouTube TV or Pluto TV, here are some of the major differences.  Pluto TV and Tubi both feature TV-MA and R-rated content, which may not be appropriate for all viewers.  Call it a hot take, but lossless audio isn't the end-all be-all of music listening. Here's my opinion on the hierarchy of audio formats.  Android launchers continue to be an excellent way to customize your home screen to your precise liking.