TriggerMesh, a cloud native integration platform provider, is launching Shaker, its latest open-source AWS EventBridge alternative project. Shaker captures, transforms, and delivers events from many out-of-the-box and custom event sources within a single, unified experience. Driven by trends centering on platform engineering and serverless, Shaker was born from the need for platform engineers, software vendors, and enterprises and system integrators (SIs) to be able to easily access events from numerous sources to build event-driven applications—all while reducing cloud costs. Often, event defined capabilities require too many resources to build, limiting its accessibility for developers. “The paradigm of event-driven architecture has become increasingly important to the process of application development and enterprise modernization,” said Kate Holterhoff, analyst at RedMonk. “The Shaker project from TriggerMesh is an open-source solution for developers and platform teams to unify events across disparate sources and connect their own platforms to new event sources.” TriggerMesh’s Shaker is an alternative to AWS EventBridge, though its critical difference is that Shaker is open-source; it also can run anywhere that has Docker or Kubernetes and captures events from all cloud providers, as well as SaaS or custom applications. Developers now have access to event-centered tools that empower real-time applications without needing to write code or waste resources. “There are users that didn’t want to use AWS EventBridge but wanted to consume events from ServiceNow, Salesforce, GitLab, Google, Azure Event Hub, and maybe AWS; they wanted, what we call, a unified eventing experience for the enterprise,” said TriggerMesh co-founder and CEO, Sebastien Goasguen. “That’s what Shaker gives you: a unified event experience so that you can build an event-driven application without using EventBridge.” “For us, developing this in open-source is extremely important to get a community around the software, get people comfortable with it, and get feedback,” explained Goasguen. “Really tuning the software to the needs of the users and the customers is the key to doing Shaker as an open-source project.” Shaker’s capabilities target reliability, agility, and scalability that streamline and unify eventing. With a transformation engine based on a simple DSL, transformations are easy and flexible within Shaker. Any changes can be made by updating the configuration, eliminating the need to dive deeply into code or deal with complex build cycles. “We needed to lower the barrier of entry; we needed to make it extremely easy to consume,” said Goasguen. “We want people to be able to get that EventBridge experience in under five minutes on their laptop. It was a big, big request from a lot of people who wanted to start developing those event-driven applications on their machine very quickly.” Additional features include simple removal or addition of consumers and producers, as well as being able to scale them independently. Further, Shaker can be easily embedded into existing platforms or products, whether that be in K8s cluster or Docker, and provides access to the most popular event sources and targets in AWS, Azure, and GCP, out-of-the-box. For more information about Shaker, please visit https://www.triggermesh.com/.