Navan, formerly known as TripActions, is now targeting a late April 2024 IPO, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter not authorized to speak publicly.  The online travel management startup has been one of the most hotly anticipated IPOs in recent years. The company filed confidential paperwork to go public at a $12 billion dollar valuation sometime this year, Insider reported last September.  But Navan CEO Ariel Cohen is now eyeing a late April 2024 IPO, with the goal of further improving Navan's gross margins and other important metrics to impress Wall Street, according to the person. "Our focus is on building the best travel and expense business in the market," said Navan spokeswoman Kelly Soderlund.  "When we have news to share on this, we will." So far this year, there have been just 43 IPOs for U.S. venture-backed startups compared to 399 in 2021, according to Crunchbase. However, this month the nearly two year dormant IPO market has finally shown signs of coming to life.  Instacart could go public on the NASDAQ as soon as next month, Bloomberg reported. Arm, the chipmaker owned by Softbank, filed for its IPO on Monday.  
                                Related stories
                               Navan has been working with Goldman Sachs on IPO preparations, The Information reported in March.  Its not clear at what price Navan would go public. The company last raised at a $9.2 billion valuation in October of 2022 in a round led by Group 11 with participation from Lightspeed Venture Partners, Coatue Management, Zeev Ventures, and Andreessen Horowitz, according to Pitchbook data. Some shares of the company on secondary markets have been trading at a significant discount with recent sales valuing the company at just $5.7 billion, according to data from Caplight, a private market exchange. But secondary sales are not usually indicative of what price a company will be listed. Andreessen Horowitz first invested in TripActions in 2018, when it led the company's series C funding round at a $1.1 billion valuation and general partner Ben Horowitz joined the board.  "It's been remarkable that as consumer travel has been completely transformed, business travel hasn't changed at all so having a real solution to it just made a lot of sense and I thought they could build a great company," Horowitz told Insider last year. Navan has raised more than $2 billion in equity and debt financing since it was founded 2015, according to Pitchbook. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to