
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)  Appointment and key award wins highlight commitment to customers and innovation in the sales enablement industry
SAN FRANCISCO, March 22, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- mindtickle , the global leader in sales enablement and training technology, today announced it has appointed Gary Luton as its SVP of Customer Success Group, focusing on the continued success and satisfaction of the customer journey. Utilizing his 25+ years of experience, Gary will ensure Mindtickle's customers are equipped with the best tools and processes needed to continue driving revenue and enhancing sales productivity.
Prior to joining Mindtickle, Gary was the Chief Customer Officer at Zip Intake-to Procure, SVP, Global Customer Success at TripActions, followed by 13 years at Salesforce running its Customer Success Group in APAC and Global Operations. Through his previous roles, he gained experience managing large, impactful teams and has repeatedly demonstrated a track record of delivering success for customers at scale.
Gary's appointment comes at a time when buying behaviors continue to evolve with discussions of a looming recession. According to Mindtickle's second annual 2023 state of sales productivity report, which analyzed data from over one million pre-sales, sales, and customer support reps at more than 400 companies, buyers asked an average of 18 questions during sales calls, a significant increase from 13 questions in Mindtickle's 2022 report. This reveals buyers are scrutinizing purchases more, putting more pressure on sellers to succeed in difficult times.
Mindtickle is also gearing up for its 2023 spring product announcement . In an April 25 webinar, the team will unveil how its latest announcement brings its revenue enablement and operations solutions closer together. This release helps enablement impact real-world behaviors more directly and helps operations teams go beyond reporting to influence seller performance.
"Our customers' success is at the heart of our business, and the innovations and impact we continue to deliver have proven invaluable during a time of economic uncertainty," said Krisha Depura, CEO at Mindtickle. "Gary's experience building and scaling global customer success strategies and operations will help us drive our customers toward success even further with our award-winning sales enablement platform."
As proof of Mindtickle's commitment to customer success and innovation in the sales enablement industry, Mindtickle was awarded the following recognitions this past year:   the 2023 stevie awards for sales and customer service : Mindtickle was recognized as a Stevie Gold Award Winner for its Sales Enablement Solution   2022 brandon hall group excellence in technology awards : Mindtickle won Bronze for Best Advance in Sales Enablement and Performance Tools   2022 deloitte technology fast 500 : For the fourth straight year, Mindtickle was selected as a Deloitte Technology Fast 500 winner, recognizing its innovation and fast growth in North America   securityscorecard : Mindtickle's SecurityScorecard rating is flying high, ranked as #9 across industries and #3 in the Information Services space among 12 million companies globally   great place to work® india : For the fifth consecutive year, Mindtickle received the Great Place To Work® CertificationTM, as a result of its dedication to its employees and fostering a globally diverse and collaborative company culture   For more information about Mindtickle and its award-winning solutions, please visit  .  About Mindtickle  Mindtickle is the market-leading sales readiness and operations platform, helping revenue leaders at over 300+ world-class companies to grow revenue by increasing knowledge, understanding ideal sales behaviors, and adapting to change. Mindtickle is recognized as a market leader by top industry analysts and is ranked by G2 as both the #2 enterprise software product and #7 sales software product. Visit  or find us on linkedin to learn more.
SOURCE Mindtickle
MENAFN22032023003732001241ID1105837762  SAN FRANCISCO, March 22, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- mindtickle , the global leader in sales enablement and training technology, today announced it has appointed Gary Luton as its SVP of Customer Success Group, focusing on the continued success and satisfaction of the customer journey. Utilizing his 25+ years of experience, Gary will ensure Mindtickle's customers are equipped with the best tools and processes needed to continue driving revenue and enhancing sales productivity. Prior to joining Mindtickle, Gary was the Chief Customer Officer at Zip Intake-to Procure, SVP, Global Customer Success at TripActions, followed by 13 years at Salesforce running its Customer Success Group in APAC and Global Operations. Through his previous roles, he gained experience managing large, impactful teams and has repeatedly demonstrated a track record of delivering success for customers at scale. Gary's appointment comes at a time when buying behaviors continue to evolve with discussions of a looming recession. According to Mindtickle's second annual 2023 state of sales productivity report, which analyzed data from over one million pre-sales, sales, and customer support reps at more than 400 companies, buyers asked an average of 18 questions during sales calls, a significant increase from 13 questions in Mindtickle's 2022 report. This reveals buyers are scrutinizing purchases more, putting more pressure on sellers to succeed in difficult times. Mindtickle is also gearing up for its 2023 spring product announcement . In an April 25 webinar, the team will unveil how its latest announcement brings its revenue enablement and operations solutions closer together. This release helps enablement impact real-world behaviors more directly and helps operations teams go beyond reporting to influence seller performance. "Our customers' success is at the heart of our business, and the innovations and impact we continue to deliver have proven invaluable during a time of economic uncertainty," said Krisha Depura, CEO at Mindtickle. "Gary's experience building and scaling global customer success strategies and operations will help us drive our customers toward success even further with our award-winning sales enablement platform." As proof of Mindtickle's commitment to customer success and innovation in the sales enablement industry, Mindtickle was awarded the following recognitions this past year: For more information about Mindtickle and its award-winning solutions, please visit  . Mindtickle is the market-leading sales readiness and operations platform, helping revenue leaders at over 300+ world-class companies to grow revenue by increasing knowledge, understanding ideal sales behaviors, and adapting to change. Mindtickle is recognized as a market leader by top industry analysts and is ranked by G2 as both the #2 enterprise software product and #7 sales software product. Visit  or find us on linkedin to learn more. SOURCE Mindtickle MENAFN22032023003732001241ID1105837762 MENAFN22032023003732001241ID1105837762 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN