 Tripadvisor has just released its Spring Travel Index and has named some of the UK’s most popular holiday destinations. The staycations on this list are the UK’s fastest growing holiday spots so Britons will need to get their skates on if they want to beat the crowds. READ MORE: Flight attendant warns tourist ‘do not buy’ viral TikTok item  Gosforth in Cumbria is one of the UK’s most popular staycation destinations. The village in the Lake District is the closest to the Eskdale and Wasdale valleys, making it a great base for Lake District exploring. History fans might want to visit Muncaster Castle, which dates back to medieval times and has been home to the Pennington family for 800 years. A visitor wrote on Tripadvisor: “Wonderful. Despite the fact it’s early March, the rhododendrons are lovely highlights of colour.” Gosforth is also home to the Gosforth Cross. The Viking Cross can be at St Mary’s Parish Church and offers an intriguing glimpse into the distant past.  Don't miss... Lanzarote aims to attract ‘higher quality' guests [NEWS] Benidorm expects record-breaking Easter as hotels could sell out [LATEST] Cheapest destination for a summer holiday named [INSPIRATION] We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Ingoldmells in Skegness took the second spot on the list. The village on the Lincolnshire coast is a family seaside favourite. The pretty coastal spot was where Billy Butlin first launched his holiday empire in 1936 and has welcomed visitors for over 80 years. Fantasy Island is one of the village’s top attractions and children will love the huge range of rides at the quirky theme park. Another Lake District spot took third place on the list. Borrowdale is just three miles south of Keswick and sits on the shore of Derwentwater. READ MORE: Mexico holiday warning after US tourists kidnapped - latest advice  St Peter Port in Guernsey took fourth place on the list and is one of the island’s most exciting spots. Tourists can wander the pretty port town’s cobbled streets and explore 800 year old Castle Cornet. Tripadvisor also revealed the world’s fastest growing destinations, with Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam topping the list. The list demonstrates how keen holidaymakers are to get back to Asia after the pandemic, with every entry a hotspot from the continent. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?