Whilst most seemed to enjoy their visits, some left less than impressed Norwich Cathedral is one of the county's most popular tourist attractions and is the second most popular thing to do in Norwich according to TripAdvisor. The Cathedral is more than 900 years and has stood above the city's skyline for centuries. Huge numbers of people regularly visit the Cathedral, taking tours and getting involved in the wide range of events and activities taking place in and around the grounds of the religious building.  Like many other tourist attractions, a number of visitors to Norwich Cathedral have left reviews of their visits on TripAdvisor, whilst most seemed to enjoy their visits, some left less-than impressed. For those who didn't enjoy their visits, some of the complaints were more unusual than others. READ MORE: Norwich named among UK's most miserable places in new interactive map We put together some of the funniest and most unusual TripAdvisor reviews left by visitors to Norwich Cathedral.  One visitor was disappointed to find Dippy the Dinosaur was on display, "Hard to get in to see the actual cathedral because l had to follow dinosaur footprints. Not what l came for." Another visitor probably should have checked the opening times before going to the Cathedral, "Was not able to enter. Closed?" This visitor found out the hard way that if you don't like the city, you probably won't like the city's attractions either, 'Did not like it at all in fact did not like Norwich at all very dismal place' 'I didn't hate this place. I absolutely love it.' If you loved your visit so much why did you only give it one star? A Cathedral is a place of worship and this visitor might not have known that when they went, "I don't believe in god". A harsh review from Rita - her priorities are a bit skewed: "Unable to access all as funeral in process." READ NEXT:  Met Office weather warning for ice across Norfolk as severe weather continues 'Handsome' Norfolk dog named Lewis Capawldi looking for home this Christmas UK's most prolific speed cameras and exactly where they are including A40, M25 and M4 Norfolk police appeal for witnesses following fatal Norwich collision Ring camera captures 'huge' spider crawling along man's worktop