A number of visitors to Fistral beach in Newquay, Cornwall have left unhappy about the large number of dogs there, which they claimed were let off their lead in a way that scared toddlers Dogs are taking over an otherwise lovely beach, according to despairing visitors to the stretch of sand. In recent years Newquay in Cornwall has become a hit with those looking for some great surf and an afternoon on the promenade. Despite this, not everyone who makes the trip down to the riptide mecca has left happy with their experience. Recently a number of visitors to Newquay have complained about the number of dogs at Fistral beach, a popular spot. The beach itself is a wide expanse of golden sand with the headlands of Pentire and Towan to the south and north respectively. The beach has become cemented as the home of British surfing with the consistency and quality of the waves that it enjoys. It also plays host to a range of events throughout the year; including Europe’s largest surf and skate festival, Boardmasters, Cornwall Live reported. Do you agree with the anti-dog beachgoers? Let us know in the comments below. One person, who uses the name Robert G on Tripadvisor, explained why they left Fistral with a bad taste in their mouth. He said: “Dogs in charge. Great beach, great for surfing. Avoid if you don't like dogs, lots off the lead which is scary for toddlers.” Another visitor described the spot as "brilliant apart from way too many dog owners" as they criticised the beach. They added: “Amazing beach, great scenery, big let down. The let down is the typical dog owners who think their dogs run the entire place. "Fouling and urinating everywhere. No one picking it up. It's absolutely disgusting and these people should have their own area where they can all meet up and walk about in crap if that's what makes them happy. Dogs running and jumping up at little kids, it's just totally out of control and the council needs to do something about it.” Over recent weeks tensions have been bubbling up between the pooch owning portion of the British population, and those who feel a little uncertain about the prospect of a slobbering mutt approaching them in a public space. The issue has been firmly placed in the spotlight by a number of tragic deaths and attacks by the American Bully XL, which have prompted Prime Minister Rishi Sunak to say the government will ban the breed. A number of beaches around the country ban dogs during the peak summer months, so human sunseekers can enjoy the sea and sand free from the presence of little furry bundles of joy. From May 1 to September every year dozens of popular beaches across the UK implement an annual five-month ban on canines at peak times.  Local councils use a range of methods to enforce the bans and some use by-laws which can result in fines for offenders. These do not apply to guide dogs. Check out our full list of the beaches which ban dogs here. While some came away from Fistral unhappy about the dog situation, thousands of people have raved about their visits there on Tripadvisor. One enthusiastic customer wrote: “Love this beach. Great facilities and superb eateries. The beach is huge and beautiful with natural pools. I felt as though I was abroad. Dogs allowed too so everyone happy." Another person said: “Great beach, massive waves, the sea did go deep suddenly quite close to shore. Lifeguards on the ball and keeping everyone in the right places. My husband and kids hired wetsuits and body boards and loved it.” A third said: “Amazing place, lovely beach, good surf and clean water. Easy access and also a great surf school.” Calling all dog lovers! Sign up to TeamDogs for your weekly dose of dog news, pictures and stories.