Tripadvisor lists the most visited destinations for locals and daytrippers The best stories from across Gwynedd We have more newsletters The best stories from across Gwynedd We have more newsletters We know North Wales is bursting with fascinating, beautiful, intriguing and historic nuggets with so many attractions and natural wonders to see throughout the year. TripAdvisor have posted their list of the best "hidden gem" destinations around Wales and our region features prominently. Although listed as "hidden gems" they are actually pretty well known sites across the nation - from attractions to beauty spots.  Here we list the top ten sites: How many have you visited?  READ MORE: KFC closing restaurant on North Wales high street READ MORE: The restaurants that have closed in North Wales as hospitality boss warns of crippling costs The number one tourist attraction remains Portmeirion. The Italianate village on the Llyn Peninsula was created by the gifted and quirky architect Sir Clough Williams-Ellis. It is enduringly popular due to its colourful, 'trompe l'oeil' style - distorting some architectural features - and famous previous guests such as playwright Noel Coward and The Beatles' George Harrison and their manager Brian Epstein. One person from Chester with the username Vivda2015 wrote on Tripadvisor: "Amazingstay. Fabulous Dinner, bed and breakfast at the Hotel. Amazing staff from check in to well trained knowledgeable serving staff in restaurant and bar . The village exceptional clean and well maintained. A very unique place to stay." National heritage museum in Blaenavon, Torfaen, south Wales. Visit the place where hundreds of men, women and children extracted coal for furnesses around the world. On Tripadvisor's website nee_hopkins wrote: "Going down the coal mine and the big pit experience on the side of the hill between the head gear and the baths were my highlights. The staff were really informative and funny. For £5 per person it is unbelievable value for money." Terraces of gardens and flora. Labourers created the grounds before some went off to fight in WWI. Collectors were commissioned to find and bring back many exotic plants from the Far East which helped amass a unique array of flora. A three-mile long swathe of golden sands on the western end of the Gower Peninsula. Check out Worms Head and Rhossili Down. Vsitor Sarah Shaw wrote on Tripadvisor: "This was a 2 day stop off on our way to a family holiday in Tenby. Our first visit to the Gower Peninsula and WOW, it didn’t disappoint.  "We were lucky to visit Rhossili for sunset, to see the beautiful sunflowers (not quite in full blown) with the amazing Worms Head backdrop, and picnic on the beach. As a National Trust member parking was free and it was relatively quiet. Will definitely be going back!" This adventure park has been dubbed the best family attraction in Wales. Nestling near Y Felinheli, Gwynedd, in Eryri National Park it boasts a rollercoaster, the UK's first solar-powered water slide and mega crafting. You’ll never run out of things to do at GreenWood. One visitor Wendy wrote on Tripadvisor last year: "We finally got a chance to visit this weekend and so glad we did. It is a very unique experience. It’s an outdoor experience which incorporates kinetic power. It’s just a small fun park which I believe is good value." A 13th Century, medieval castle built as a fortress and the seat of the Herbert family. The Grade I listed building near Welshpool (SY21 8RF) has one of the most extensive Indian artefact collections in the UK. One visitor Gordon L wrote on Tripadvisor: "A fascinating and beautiful place to visit with close links to Lord Clive (of the East India Company), an extensive history together with some stunning, absolutely amazing objects of sculpture, paintings, rugs, vases and so on. I spent 3 hours engrossed in the place, helped enormously by a very garrulous National Trust Guide (superb , I must say) who pointed us in the direction of am amazing clock, a 1,700 year Roman Sculpture of a Cat... a 500 year old broadsword, the bedroom in which Prince Charles stayed, a marble table of such beauty and craftsmanship I could not believe, Paintings by Reynolds and Gainsborough, ancient vases and so on.  "Then of course a collection of artefacts once owned by Clive of India and thereafter the beautiful gardens." The most westerly part of the county of Glamorgan, projecting out towards the Bristol Channel. It was made the first Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty in the UK in 1956. Alison H wrote on Tripadvisor: "Lives up to its reputation. Parts of the area are reminiscent of Dartmoor or Exmoor with animals belonging to locals with grazing rights wandering freely ……cattle , sheep and ponies . Used as I am to the beaches of Northumberland I was bowled over by Rhossili beach ! You probably need to have your own transport to appreciate the area properly." South Stack Lighthouse in a stunning location down 400 steps off the coast near Holyhead on Anglesey. South Stack Lighthouse and Visitor Centre are operated under licence from Trinity House. It could be a cash only visit though as there may not be wifi for card machines. JanW122 wrote on Tripadvisor: "Fabulous views from the cliff tops, saw interesting birds and had a tasty lunch in the great cafe also there’s a RSPB shop." An architectural marvel helping to carrying water along an eleven-mile stretch of Llangollen Canal which has UNESCO World Heritage Site status. One user crossed in an unusual vessel this year. The "Boatswagen" turned heads when it cruised along the canal and over the Pontcysyllte Aqueduct towards Chirk Tunnel. It was captained/steered by Charlie Burns, the vessel’s owner from Nuneaton, Warwickshire. On holiday in Denbighshire with his family, he used steel ramps to drive into - and out of the water - at Trevor Basin. Visitor Thomas C, of London, wrote on Tripadvisor: "The aqueduct is amazing - fantastic views and a great feat of engineering - well worth a visit. We found parking in Froncysyllte easier than in Trevor Basin. The walk from there to the aqueduct is short and pleasant." Lying between Aberystwyth in the west and the Shropshire Hills in the east, the Elan Valley offers 70 square miles of dams, reservoirs and spectacular landscapes. Located in the heart of the Cambrian Mountains in mid-Wales, you can explore by car, bike or on foot. Sue Salford wrote on Tripadvisor: "It's a stunningly beautiful set of 4 or 5 reservoirs serving Birmingham, owned and run by Dir (Dwr) Cymru. They have made the most of its amenity value, as you can get information and a shop in the visitor centre - some food and drinks served outside at the mo.  "Hire a bike for adults or kids, walk the trail - an old railway line. Drive pretty much round all the reservoirs, although it is tight in places. There are picnic spots in the woods and old pillboxes, I think you can kayak in one of the lakes and it was just gorgeous."  