Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Europe's 'worst coastal town' has luxury hotels, beautiful views and amazing beaches nearby - but it's not proving popular with holidaymakers for summer By One of the prettiest Greek islands has been revealed as the home of 'Europe's worst coastal town' - but it seems that the A-list haven't got the memo.  Mykonos has been drawing in famous faces for decades, with the likes of Beyoncé, Kim Kardashian and George Clooney having been spotted enjoying summer trips there, while this year the island has already attracted stars such as Nicole Scherzinger, Lottie Tomlinson, Phil Foden and Chiara Ferragni.  The island is notorious for its epic parties thanks to the plethora of luxurious beach clubs and bars that line up its shores, not to mention the island's beautiful white-washed buildings and picture-perfect beaches that make this such an Instagram-worthy hotspot.  Unfortunately, it's also infamously expensive; in fact, recent research found that cheapest hotels came in at around £193 a night. This may be one of the key factors behind Mykonos Town being named Europe's 'worst coastal town' in a recent Which? travel survey.  Do you think Mykonos is the worst coastal town? Let us know in the comments below Read more Livid parents leave savage note for 'selfish' party-goers in Ibiza who woke up baby In fact, the Which? team advised holidaymakers to "give it a miss" when planning their next summer holiday.  Despite ranking highly on attractiveness, the friendliness of locals and a pretty seafront/marina, Mykonos Town still came bottom of the table.  It could be because the town's prices continue to shoot up. In fact, one bar has become infamous for charging tourists hundreds of pounds for snacks and drinks - prompting Tripadvisor to issue a warning on its page earlier this year.  DK Oyster Bar has been at the centre of a handful of tales of people receiving eye-watering bills for a few drinks and some food.  One couple who slammed the bar for its prices were Jessica Yarnall, 31, and Adam Hagaun, 30. They claimed they were hit with a staggering 800 euro bill (approximately £710) for two drinks, four crab legs and a salad. When they challenged the bill, they claim staff produced a 'shot glass' drink that they said was an example of the 25 euro mojito and informed them that their mojitos were different ones, at 100 euros per drink, the couple alleged. DK Oyster bar owner Dimitrios Kalamaras said Jessica's account was inaccurate, but refused to state which part he was referring to. Tripadvisor's added warning reads: "Tripadvisor has been made aware of recent media reports or events concerning this property which may not be reflected in reviews found on this listing. Accordingly, you may wish to perform additional research for information about this property when making your travel plans."  Still, the island of Mykonos is generally renowned for its epic party season during the summer months, from boat parties to its glamorous bars and clubs. It's not all 'party party' though - the island is home to some quieter beaches, as well as picturesque historic sites and a museum or two. There are some great luxury hotels to be found across the island but it is possible to find slightly more budget-friendly accommodation if you consider self-catering and B&B options. Read more UK's 50 best beaches for summer including Dorset, Devon, Sussex, and Norfolk This summer, celebrities have already been making the most of its picture-perfect scenery. Nicole Scherzinger gave her fans major holiday envy as she posed in a white crop top and maxi skirt with a view of the island in the background, and those breathtaking sunset skies.  Meanwhile Lottie Tomlinson offered a glimpse of her holiday, sharing snaps as she relaxed on her hotel room's balcony in a fluffy white bathrobe, and posed in a white bikini before heading to the pool.  Phil Foden has also been making the most of his downtime between seasons, sharing a series of photos with his family and friends as they relaxed poolside and explored the island.  For some it wasn't all just play - Italian blogger Chiara Ferragni shared some photos as she headed to the Greek Island for a series of fun events across the island.  Fuengirola Portimao Naples Benalmádena Marseille Catania  Albufeira  Carvoeiro  Benidorm  You can see the full list and research on which.co.uk.  Can we send you the Mirror Travel newsletter with weekly travel news and inspiration?