Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. Loch Ness has been slammed for having the "wettest water" in a bizarre one-star review from a recent visitor, who stated that they "never saw the Monster once" during their visit. A tourist has slammed Loch Ness in a scathing one-star review in which they claim they "never saw the monster once". Loch Ness is among the most iconic and picturesque destinations in the Scottish Highlands. It's best known for being the supposed home of the Loch Ness Monster, affectionately known as Nessie, a legendary creature in Scottish folklore.  Numerous purported sightings of the beast over the decades have led tourists far and wide to visit the loch, with many keen to catch a glimpse of Nessie themselves. While the very existence of the Loch Ness Monster is questioned, one recent visitor was left frustrated when they didn't see the elusive creature. They took to travel website TripAdvisor to slam Loch Ness in a one-star review in response.  The reviewer wrote: "Went for a swim in Loch Ness and it was the wettest water I have ever encountered, probably due to the temperature which was surprisingly cold. Spent a whole week there and never saw the Monster once. "The man at the shop told us if we sat perfectly still on the bench we were more likely to see him but we didn't see a thing. Lots of people were in and out of the shop and were usually laughing quite loud which could have scared him away. "Not going back until something is done about the weather." However, with an average rating of 4.5 out of five on TripAdvisor based on 1,797 reviews, most people who visit the iconic loch are left satisfied.  One recent five-star review states: "I had an incredible two-day experience of wild camping by Loch Ness. "It was particularly fascinating due to the legend of the Monster, and it was also my first time camping in Scotland. The location was absolutely picturesque." Meanwhile, a second reads: "First time visiting Loch Ness even though I have visited Inverness countless times.  "I don’t know why I didn’t visit sooner, it is absolutely breathtaking. Got lots of great photographs." Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our newsletter here.