Clear to partly cloudy. Low 56F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 56F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:52 pm     All kinds of smiles shone out from the stage at the Tri-State Rodeo arena. From broad grins to shy smiles, the contestants for Little Miss Rodeo and All-Around Cowboy took their moments in the spotlight. 2023 Miss Rodeo Iowa Micah Barnes from Cherokee, introduced the children, ages 5-7. All of the contestants had a fund-raising canister placed at a local business. Most of the funds from the canisters will go to Barnes to help defray costs of her competing in Las Vegas. Barnes introduced last year’s winners:  2022 All-Around Cowboy Lane Palmer said his favorite part of the year was riding in the truck around the rodeo.  2022 Little Miss Rodeo Blakely Piklapp said she had a lemonade stand and made $50. After seeing a lot of singers and dancers, a harmonica player, a comedian and even a roper, the crowd learned who won the titles this year. Ashlyn Westermeyer was crowned Little Miss Rodeo. Ashlyn is the 6-year-old daughter of Tony and Kayla Westermeyer, of Montrose. Her canister was located at MAFAB Fisheries in Montrose. She said her favorite rodeo activity was riding the sheep, “but this might be my last time because I might be too old.” Her favorite TV show is Spongebob Squarepants, her favorite food is chicken on the bone and she sang “One of the Good Ones.” Ayden Yaley, the 6-year-old son of Ashley and Eric Yaley of Fort Madison, won the All-Around Cowboy title. His favorite rodeo event was the bulls. His favorite food is mac ‘n’ cheese. He likes football, basketball and baseball. He entertained the crowd by telling rodeo-themed jokes. First runner-up Little Miss Rodeo was Aubrie Ferrel, the 7-year-old daughter of Shay Lieber and Brad Ferrel of Fort Madison. First runner-up All-Around Cowboy was Garrett Mohrfeld, the 7-year-old son of Michael and Jillian Mohrfeld Fort Madison. Second runner-up Little Miss Rodeo was Ainsley Marky, the 6-year-old daughter of Anthony and Josie Marky of Donnellson. Second runner-up All-Around Cowboy was Collin Andrews, the 5-year-old son of Rusty and Devan Andrews of Fort Madison. The judges of the competition were Garrett and Tami Piklapp. Tammy was crowned Little Miss Rodeo in 1989, as was her sister and in 2019, her daughter, Ellison, was crowned. Daughter Blakely was crowned Little Miss Rodeo in 2022. Jaclyn Prado was another judge. Prado is from Denmark and was crowned Little Miss Rodeo at the age of 3 in 1997. Bobby Reid, from Montrose, rounded out the judge’s table. He is well-known for skydiving into rodeo arenas with a huge American flag while the national anthem plays. He has jumped into the Tri-State Rodeo arena every year since 1988. He has served on the Montrose City Council and has also been mayor of that town.   The Daily Democrat mobile app brings you the latest local breaking news, updates, and more.  Read the Daily Democrat on your mobile device just as it appears in print.
  Clear to partly cloudy. Low 56F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph. Clear to partly cloudy. Low 56F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph. Partly cloudy skies during the morning hours will become overcast in the afternoon. High 77F. Winds ENE at 5 to 10 mph. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: