Grady Johnson | grady.johnson@ku.edu The Lawrence City Commission briefly discussed Tuesday the idea of making parts of downtown Lawrence Common Consumption Areas, allowing residents to openly carry alcohol in designated public spaces.  The Kansas men’s basketball team learned about the department and firefighting careers, watched demonstrations and even got to practice some firefighter skills themselves last Tuesday as they joined the Lawrence-Douglas County Fire Department in a day of education and training. Though it has been absent for nearly 20 years, Day on the Hill concerts featured some of the biggest names to perform at the University of Kansas.  Opinion writer Jack Shaw gives his take on the University of Kansas' development of certain buildings on campus, specifically in the Central District, and how it omits other issues for students.  Senior psychology and information systems major Avery Lynch shares how it felt to experience sleep paralysis for the first time in 2020 at her family home. In honor of the spooky season, Bella Black, who is currently enrolled in SLAV 230: The Vampire in Literature, Film and Television course, shared a fang-tastic written entry of what Black imagines it’d be like to be a vampire for a week. Lawrence is more than just Mass Street, Kansan writer Harry Whited says in his exploration of Lawrence's staple restaurants that are "Just off Mass." Photographer Baya Burgess showcases local band Mopsy, who is preparing to perform at the 30th annual Farmer's Ball on April 26, and if audience voters quality them as a finalist, April 27.   Students of JMC 410 took photos for their recent photography assignment, showcasing their progress over the semester.    Prom Dress Lawrence provided a giveaway event for Lawrence High School on Saturday, April 6. The event consisted of giving away free items for students to use for upcoming formals and dances.   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 University Daily Kansan (@universitydailykansan) • Instagram photos and videos Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: