US Youth Soccer Partnership to keep families connected and informed through the development of new national and local digital networks FRISCO, Texas (March 22, 2023) – US Youth Soccer (USYS), the largest youth sports organization in the country with nearly 3 million registered players, and NBC Sports Next announced today a new multi-year technology partnership. With the goal of promoting and growing the sport of soccer nationwide, NBC Sports Next will utilize its innovative technology platform, SportsEngine, to build a comprehensive online and mobile content network for the national soccer organization and its 54 State Associations and members. The initial priority in the partnership will be for NBC Sports Next to create a cutting-edge digital network from which USYS can deliver valuable content to its more than 10,000 clubs and leagues, and nearly 1 million administrators, coaches and volunteers — including news and video highlights. “We’ve found the perfect partner in NBC Sports Next, as their technology will greatly help us deliver the most comprehensive and compelling content to the entire youth soccer ecosystem,” said US Youth Soccer CEO Skip Gilbert. “Beyond just mere connection, we will be building an interactive community that will make all our dreams possible for tomorrow’s players today.” The new NBC Sports Next partnership with USYS is another momentous commitment that NBCUniversal has made to the sport of soccer. Other efforts include making the Premier League more accessible in the U.S. through its airing on USA Network and Peacock; Telemundo’s extensive coverage of the World Cup; NBC Sports’ continued support of the Olympic and Paralympic movement, and more. “We’re honored to be a key foundational partner with US Youth Soccer and its State Associations, as we share their passion and commitment to supporting and growing the sport of soccer nationally and on a grassroots level,” said Brett MacKinnon, SVP & General Manager, Youth & Recreational Sports, NBC Sports Next. “We’re excited about working with USYS leadership to create a best-in-class content network that will serve as a key resource for leagues and teams, especially as we all build anticipation for the next Olympics in Paris and the U.S. hosting another World Cup in 2026.” ### About the United States Youth Soccer Association (US Youth Soccer) US Youth Soccer, the largest youth sport organization in the country, is on a mission to provide world-class support, resources, and leadership, helping every member fulfill their goals on and off the field of play. US Youth Soccer registers nearly 2.5 million players annually. Through its programming, resources and leadership, US Youth Soccer is advancing the game for its 54 Member State Associations, 10,000 clubs and leagues and one million administrators, coaches, and volunteers. US Youth Soccer connects families and communities to the power of sports and its shared love of soccer. US Youth Soccer provides a path for every player, coach and referee offering programs that provide a fun, safe and healthy environment at every level of the game. About NBC Sports Next NBC Sports Next is a subdivision of NBC Sports and home to all NBCUniversal digital applications in sports and technology within Golf and Youth & Recreational Sports. Known for its sports technology product innovation, NBC Sports Next equips more than 30 million players, coaches, athletes, sports administrators and fans in 40 countries with more than 25 sports solution products, including GolfNow, the leading online tee time marketplace and provider of golf course operations technology and services; GolfPass the ultimate golf membership that connects golfers to exclusive content, tee time credits, coaching, tips and other benefits; SportsEngine, an industry leader in youth sports club, league and team management technology; TeamUnify, swim team management services; GoMotion, sports and fitness business software solutions; TourneyMachine, tournament management solutions for youth sports. NBC Sports Next is fueled by its mission to innovate, create larger-than-life events and connect with sports fans through technology to provide the ultimate in immersive experiences. -USYS-