Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) announced today it has named Vijay Menta the Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer. Menta joins WPI from Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vt., where he had held similar IT leadership positions since 2018. Prior to Middlebury, he spent 20 years at Yale University. As VP and CIO, Menta will provide the technological vision and leadership to support and advance the university’s network operations, systems services, application administration, data architecture, enterprise resource planning, support services, academic technologies, research computing, and IT security.  “This is an important time of strategic growth and innovative excellence for the university,” said Michael Horan, executive vice president and chief financial officer. “WPI is extremely fortunate to have someone with Vijay Menta’s expertise and background in higher education to lead us in enhancing our technological infrastructure. In particular, he will be a significant asset as we enhance our research in artificial intelligence and our operational goals in the use of AI.”  Menta holds a bachelor of technology in Civil Engineering from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, India; a master of science in Civil Engineering from Clemson University; and a master of business administration from the University of New Haven. His professional achievements include directing the completion of the Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) project for the Green Mountain Higher Education Consortium (GMHEC) as well as spearheading efforts to significantly improve information security at Middlebury––including widespread adoption of multi-factor authentication, the rollout of antivirus software, and desktop encryption on all college-owned devices. Also, notably, in 2020 Menta led a team of 55 IT professionals during a time of rapid change and extraordinary challenges posed by the COVID pandemic, guiding Middlebury’s technical infrastructure to allow for a seamless transition to remote teaching and learning. “I am extremely excited and honored to be joining this wonderful institution to support the faculty, students, and entire community as we take WPI to the next level of information technology services,” Menta said. “This is an exciting time for the future of technology, and I am particularly committed to ensuring our technologies are accessible and inclusive, and everyone has the right tools to succeed.” Menta will assume the role of VP and CIO on January 17, 2023. 