0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Extended Reality (XR) technologies will revolutionise businesses and enhance consumer experience in India, as per Dentsu India’s latest report. Dentsu India has released its research report titled 'Adoption of XR technology in India’. The report has been created in collaboration with Recogn - dentsu India's research division, and Digital Behaviour Initiative - started by Sumitava Mukherjee at IIT Delhi. The report has been jointly designed by Sumitava Mukherjee from IIT Delhi and Payel C Mukherjee from IIIT Delhi. The report discusses the various aspects of immersive XR technologies that will change the face of business and improve customer experiences. It also addresses consumer attitudes toward extended reality technologies. Additionally, it delves into how businesses can align themselves to implement these technologies in their operations, processes, etc. The report says that the launch of 5G services in India has only added to the digital landscape's boom. This is a defining moment in the ease of doing business and will revolutionise the digital sector. It will boost the Indian economy and reform industries such as agriculture, healthcare, education, logistics, transportation, and fintech. 5G services will significantly improve the nation's digital ecosystem and usher in the next phase of the industrial revolution.  The initial purpose of using a VR device for users was entertainment like attending concerts, watching movies, or playing games. The level of detail in the Metaverse combined with the ability to network in one platform is set to alter the course of human interaction. The most important aspect of moving on to this phase would be hardware in the form of virtual reality headsets. XR technologies including Metaverse, and VR devices will herald a new era of experience, as per the report. Businesses will need to raise awareness and develop robust use cases to move customer adoption of this technology from novelty to necessity.  Simi Sabhaney, Chief Growth Officer, dentsu India, said, “In the Indian context, an immersive technology such as extended reality needs to gain widespread adoption across multiple sectors , in order to improve efficiencies, collaborations, and innovation. Introduction of 5G services in India, heralds new opportunities. Furthermore, immersive experiences will push us beyond the edge.” “Investments in this technology will accelerate adoption and innovative applications. The growth of metaverse will boost the adoption of extended reality, and together they will play a role in solving real-world problems. Brands should fast-track their focus toward incorporating these technologies into new strategies to lay a solid foundation for the internet's future.” The reports delve into the different aspects of the digital industry, consumer behaviour, and more. Additionally, the research also covers some relevant topics like Instagram in India – users’ perspective, Voice Technology in India, and the usage of the internet in the local language. The full report can be accessed by clicking here: https://www.dentsu.com/sg/en/reports/dentsu_india_xr_adoption_in_india. Info@BestMediaInfo.com  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    