
Payments platform Aiwallex has announced partnering with TrueLayer, a payments network powered by open banking, to deliver new payment solutions for businesses By leveraging Airwallex’s payments and financial infrastructure API, TrueLayer will be able to build new products and services globally. In addition, the partnership will enable TrueLayer to deliver enhanced real-time payments and treasury operations to maximise ROI for merchants. 
                                The gold standard of business intelligence.
                             
                                    Find out more
                                    



 Head of Payment Infrastructure at TrueLayer Jake Reeves commented: “As our client base increases in sophistication and complexity, we want to collaborate with firms that complement our approach to payments. Airwallex is the perfect partner to support our mission to change the way the world pays. “Together we’re simplifying cross-border, multi-currency open banking payments, reconciliation and related back-office processes”, Reeves added. Airwallex is a global payments and financial platform for businesses, allowing them to manage their payments, treasury and embedded finance on one platform. In April, the company launched its global payment services in Canada, encouraged by strong growth in the Americas region. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Ryan O’Holleran, head of Sales and Enterprise EMEA at Airwallex, welcomed the collaboration with TrueLayer. “We selected TrueLayer for its coverage and world-class open banking technology to further support our global customer base”, O’Holleran said. “Our integration will benefit our clients by providing them with the most innovative modern infrastructure to enable businesses of all sizes to grow beyond borders.” Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the Electronic Payments International 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024