Wake Forest’s football stadium will have a new name heading into the 2023 season. Allegacy Federal Credit Union has agreed to a multiyear campuswide partnership with the school that includes stadium naming rights. The Demon Deacons’ home field will now be called Allegacy Stadium. The school called the deal the largest corporate partnership in Wake Forest’s history, but it did not reveal the terms. Independent Sports and Entertainment assisted on the agreement between Allegacy and Wake Forest. Included in the deal, Allegacy will become an official banking partner of Wake Forest athletics, as well as the exclusive credit union and the exclusive wealth management advisor. Allegacy also will be designated the preferred student athlete financial education provider, assisting Wake athlete with general finance and education. Allegacy has worked with Wake Forest for 20-plus years, the school said. The credit union was founded in Winston-Salem, N.C., where Wake is located. The Deacons announced yesterday that their longtime naming-rights deal with Truist Bank, formerly BB&T, was coming to an end. That naming-rights deal had been in existence since 2007, although Truist will continue its corporate relationship with the school as an official banking partner. Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/06/21/Facilities/allegacy-federal-credit-union-wake-forest-football-stadium-naming-rights.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Issues/2023/06/21/Facilities/allegacy-federal-credit-union-wake-forest-football-stadium-naming-rights.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: