In a report released on April 3, Nitin Kumar CFA from Mizuho Securities reiterated a Buy rating on Ovintiv (OVV – Research Report), with a price target of $66.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $39.14. Kumar CFA covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as Ovintiv, Chevron, and Matador Resources. According to TipRanks, Kumar CFA has an average return of 29.1% and a 77.14% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on Ovintiv is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $53.81, a 37.48% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Truist Financial also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $56.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $61.99  and a one-year low of $32.26. Currently, Ovintiv has an average volume of 3.66M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 125 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of OVV in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Ovintiv, Inc. produces and develops multi-basin portfolio of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas producing plays. The firm operates through the following segments: Canadian Operations, USA Operations and Market Optimization. The Canadian Operations segment includes the exploration for, development of, and production of oil, NGLs, natural gas and other related activities within Canada. The USA Operations segment includes the exploration for, development of, and production of oil, NGLs, natural gas and other related activities within the United States. The Market Optimization segment’s activities are managed by the Midstream, Marketing & Fundamentals team, which is primarily responsible for the sale of the Company’s proprietary production to third party customers. The company was founded in 1881 and is headquartered in Denver, CO.  Read More on OVV: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks