In a report released today, Alex Henderson from Needham maintained a Buy rating on Varonis Systems (VRNS – Research Report), with a price target of $26.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $24.51. According to TipRanks, Henderson is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 14.6% and a 55.73% success rate. Henderson covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Okta, Ciena, and Radware. Varonis Systems has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $28.47, a 16.16% upside from current levels. In a report released on January 9, Truist Financial also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $35.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on Varonis Systems’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending September 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $123.31 million and a GAAP net loss of $28.72 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $100.35 million and had a GAAP net loss of $23.31 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 48 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of VRNS in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Varonis Systems, Inc. engages in providing data security and analytics. It operates through the following segments: United States, EMEA, and Rest of the World. Its products includes datadvantage, data classification engine, data transport engine, Varonis edge, datanswers, datalert, dataprivilege, automation engine, and GDPR patterns. The company was founded by Yaki Faitelson and Ohad Korkus on November 3, 2004 and is headquartered in New York, NY.  Read More on VRNS: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks