The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust has jumped by over 168% from December lows. The trust is hoping for Bitcoin to have a bullish breakout above the YTD high. The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) stock price has moved sideways in the past few days as Bitcoin remained stuck at $30,000. GBTC was trading at $20, the highest level since June last year. It has jumped by more than 168% from the lowest level in December. The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust is the biggest fund in the cryptocurrency industry. It has over $18.9 billion of assets under management (AUM). Over the years, the fund has jumped by more than 19,200% since its inception. Grayscale Bitcoin Trust stores its assets in an offline cold wallet with Coinbase Custody Trust. Most companies that have filed for Bitcoin ETFs have also selected Coinbase as the custodian of the funds. GBTC creators have filed to convert the GBTC fund into an exchange-traded fund (ETF). Indeed, the company has sued the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a case that could change the industry.  A ruling in favor of the company will open the possibility for other companies like Blackrock and Invesco to launch their spot ETFs.  GBTC is widely known for its massive discount to its assets, The market price per share stands at $19.81 compared to its holdings per share of $22. This discount has been narrowing in the past few weeks. The next key important catalyst for the GBTC stock price will be Bitcoin’s price action. Bitcoin has remained stuck slightly above the key support level at $30,000. Therefore, if Bitcoin rebounds, there is a likelihood that the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust will continue rising as well.  The daily chart shows that the GBTC share price has been in a strong bullish trend in the past few days. It has managed to move above the important resistance point at $18.53, the highest level on April 10th.  The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust stock price has moved above the 50-day and 100-day exponential moving averages (EMA). Further, the Relative Strength Index (RSI) has moved slightly below the overbought level to 69. GBTC’s volume has moved downwards. Therefore, there is a likelihood that the GBTC price will continue rising as buyers target the next key resistance level at $25. A drop below the support at $18.53 will invalidate the bullish view. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
