We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Crypto Gems gives his honest thoughts about what he likes most about Wall Street Memes ($WSM), a new breed of high-potential memecoin presale. Wall Street Memes are at the top of this memecoin fever, which has carried the flame and fueled the excitement to new heights.  New meme token Wall Street Memes recently exceeded the $10.6 million presale mark. The memecoin was introduced less than a month ago and has already seen tremendous success. The project’s amazing success can be attributed to its robust community base. The project has a strong foundation, with over 1 million community members, including high-profile backers like Elon Musk. What distinguishes Wall Street Memes is its participation in the memecoin frenzy and the intriguing narrative behind its birth. See our guide to the best memecoins to buy here. The initiative is a spinoff of the WallStreetBets subreddit, which sparked the 2021 GameStop revolution. The Wall Street Memes project has tokenized the event, which saw retail investors compete with institutional investors by buying up shares of faltering companies. Chad mentality pic.twitter.com/iI8TIOnmEJ — Wall Street Memes (@wallstmemes) June 26, 2023  Wall Street Memes now aim to provide a way for everyone to benefit from seemingly worthless currency. Wall Street Memes, with over 400 million impressions, provides an unlimited variety of financial memes that crypto investors can use. This enables the larger online community to access a wide variety of meme-related content. Create a Crypto Wallet – To keep their $WSM coins, investors must first build a crypto wallet. Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Trust Wallet, WalletConnect, and others are some of the most popular crypto wallets. Install the app and then tap the ‘Create a new wallet’ option on the screen. To begin, copy and save the backup phrase generated for the wallet and follow the on-screen prompts. Connect Wallet – After you’ve established the wallet, go to the Wall Street Memes presale page. Then, beneath the presale amount countdown, tap the ‘Buy Now’ button. Choose one of the wallet alternatives from the list and press the ‘Continue’ button on the wallet app. Investors can move on to the next step once both platforms have been linked. Swap ETH, USDT, BNB, or Card for $WSM – The $WSM token accepts a variety of payment methods, including Ethereum’s ETH, USDT, Binance’s BNB, and even a standard debit or credit card. To begin, from the presale amount countdown, select one of the available options between ETH, USDT, or Card, and enter the amount you wish to purchase. After that, click the ‘Buy Now’ option and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the purchase. The transaction will be recorded on the blockchain network, and users will be able to claim the tokens once the presale period has ended. Wall Street Memes includes a whitepaper and roadmap that outline its aims and provide insight into its future potential. So far, all of the things in Phase 1 have been completed, and the team is working toward its Phase 2 objectives. See our guide to the best crypto ICOs to invest in here. Influencer collaborations, awareness campaigns, and the creation of a gated community are examples of Phase 2 and 3 roadmap advancements. The plan also indicates that the team’s goal is to have a market capitalization of $1 billion. See our Wall Street Memes price prediction here. Given the total quantity of two billion tokens, this would imply a token price of $0.50. Because it is still in pre-sale, investors can purchase $WSM for a discounted price of $0.0301. If it reaches its $1 billion market value target, individuals who buy now will have more than a 16x return. It remains to be seen whether Wall Street Memes can reach a $1 billion market cap. However, given Pepe’s $1.8 billion market cap in May, it seems feasible. It accomplished this with an anonymous team, no track record, and a much smaller population than Wall Street Memes. The Wall Street Memes presale has 30 rounds in total. It is currently in round 18 of 30. The presale has a hard cap of $30,577,000 and has recently crossed $10.6 million, indicating that it is around 30% complete. Throughout the remaining presale rounds, the price will rise to a final presale price of $0.03370000. As a result, investors who want to maximize their profits should act promptly. See our guide to the best altcoins to buy now here. Aside from a growing community, the platform has attracted the attention of famous individuals such as Elon Musk, who has responded to Wall Street Memes’ tweets on many occasions. See our guide to the best low market cap crypto to buy here. Musk’s tweets have historically led the price of memecoins like Dogecoin to skyrocket, and his involvement with the platform might benefit $WSM by helping the coin attract even more fans. The distribution of the $WSM token emphasizes the project’s community-centric approach. The presale has been assigned 50% of the capped quantity of 2 billion tokens, 30% for community benefits, and 20% for exchange liquidity. Notably, no budget has been set aside for the team, demonstrating the project’s openness and commitment to avoiding a ‘rug pull’ scenario. In honor of the Wall Street Memes presale, the team is also hosting a $50,000 airdrop, in which users may earn up to seven entries by doing easy activities. Following Wall Street Memes on Twitter and joining its Telegram group are two of the tasks. More information about the airdrop is available on its website. See our guide on how to buy $WSM token here. New OKX Listing - Wall Street Memes Rating Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Alvin is an Industrial Engineering graduate based in Calabarzon, Philippines. After university he took up a role as an e-commerce analyst for a leading e-commerce platform in the Philippines, Shopee PH. A long-time crypto enthusiast and trader interested in researching the best investments in the crypto space, he is also a freelance writer here at InsideBitcoins eager to share his… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Blockchain ...