We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Metropoly presale has flown past its minimum goal of $750,000 to touch $822,138 at the time of this writing. The widespread support from crypto whales has expedited the presale and is predicted to bring it to an early sell-out. Now in the ninth stage, METRO is priced at $0.0625 per piece. The presale undergoes a gradual price hike with each stage. The ninth stage will end on March 21, 2023, at 4 PM UTC, and the METRO token launch is scheduled for May 1, 2023. To facilitate a smooth buying experience for the growing number of participants, the Metropoly presale page has added five more languages – Dutch, Korean, Turkish, Russian, and Norwegian.  Metropoly is running a $1M Burj Khalifa Giveaway that you can enter with just $100 worth of METRO tokens. That is a compelling reason to participate in the ongoing METRO presale. But that doesn’t explain why whales are stocking up on the token in bulk and what they see in the project. Behind all the glamor and glitter, Metropoly is the world’s first NFT marketplace backed by real-world properties. In other words, Metropoly decentralizes and democratizes the global real estate market using blockchain technology and NFTs. And that speaks volumes about the token’s growth potential. The pioneering platform allows you to invest in a high-yield real estate property for as low as $100. It adds real-world real estate assets to the blockchain as NFTs and then divides them into fractional NFTs to allow retail purchases. That essentially means that you can invest in multiple real estate properties with your monthly savings using Metropoly NFTs.  Let’s understand it better with an example. A luxury villa in your tourist town costs $1M. You and 9999 other people in the town want to invest in the property, but can’t afford to. Although it is theoretically possible for each of you to pool in $100 and buy the property, it is practically difficult. There is a lot of paperwork and legal complexities involved. Of course, one person could own the property legally and distribute the monthly income and the resale proceeds to others. But let’s face it. There is none we can trust with a $1M property. To add to that, there are the hassles of profit sharing. As a result, real estate properties are confined to the rich now. That wouldn’t be the case in the future, however. Blockchain technology provides an excellent solution to navigate the problem. With Metropoly we are building the first NFT marketplace to invest in income-generating properties. ? ✅ No Paperwork
✅ No Mortgage Lender
✅ Property Management Done For You
✅ Earn Monthly Passive Income
✅ Take Advantage of Capital Appreciation ? https://t.co/HPcCrqE6GL pic.twitter.com/oEEAcafngH — METROPOLY – PRE-SALE IS LIVE! ? (@metropoly_io) March 11, 2023 At the heart of Metropoly is the mission to simplify the process of buying and selling real estate. Since the assets are converted into fractional NFTs, you don’t have to deal with banks, paperwork, or hidden fees in this case. This is a huge relief when compared to traditional real estate trading, which can take up to months to complete. Metropoly gives you an easy way to invest fractionally in income-generating properties. Here is a closer look at the platform and how it works: Metropoly introduces tangible NFT use cases that explore beyond the crypto market to reinvent global real estate. If the presale is any sign, the crypto market has received the project with open arms. Retail investors and whales are grabbing the tokens in bulk to take advantage of the early-stage discounts.  Everyone needs a roof over their heads – to sleep, work, and even vacation. That explains why real estate is one of the most sought-after investment assets. It is evergreen. Moreover, it generates cash flow and acts as a great hedge against inflation. As one of the first projects to propose a tangible solution to decentralizing global real estate, Metropoly has high market relevance and growth potential. It is one of the best new cryptocurrencies of 2023. Furthermore, the crypto market has shifted its focus from hype to innovation over the last few months, especially after the series of price crashes in 2022. Although the market is more promising than ever, it is important for investors to look for projects that create real-world value to maintain a profitable portfolio. Metropoly’s radically creative platform substantiates its fast-moving presale. The contract code is fully audited by SolidProof and the team is verified by CertiK, eliminating the risks of a scam or hack. Metropoly Marketplace Beta is live and ready for action, instilling faith in the project development.  METRO is the native cryptocurrency of Metropoly. It plays a key role in facilitating the payment and reward system of the project. Now in the ninth stage, the presale is selling at $0.0625 per piece. It is best to grab them early if you’re looking for the best discounts. All you need to participate in the METRO presale is a crypto wallet (Metamask and Trust Wallet are known for their smooth user experience) funded with ETH, BNB, or USDT. To get started, go to the presale page, enter your purchase details, and confirm the transaction. The minimum purchase is $100 worth of METRO. It will also grant you entry to the $1M Burj Khalifa giveaway if you complete the listed tasks. The lucky winner of the giveaway is eligible for up to $100k per year as rent proceeds from the property. You can claim your METRO tokens after the presale ends. (Use the bonus code LAUNCH20 to get an additional 20% on your purchases.)  Visit the Metropoly Presale
Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage

 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Michael has had a keen interest in investing in cryptocurrency and trading since the 2017 bull run, and is now a freelance writer producing educational material on decentralized finance topics online. Originally from Germany, Michael attended Kings College London to complete a course in Mechanical Engineering. Around the time of the blockchain boom, he applied that technical expertise to the… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Markets ...