 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
  Funding Circle 
Our Take
 
A business loan from Funding Circle may be a good option for a business owner with healthy credit who wants quick approval and funding. However, the speed of approval and funding might come at a high price—in the form of a potentially high interest rate and high loan origination and late payment fees.
 Few fees Fast decision on loan approval Quick funding of loans Steep credit score requirements High loan origination fee Potentially high APRs 
Funding Circle, founded in 2010, is a peer-to-peer lending platform for small business loans. It started in the United Kingdom and later expanded to the U.S. Funding Circle’s stock has traded on the London Stock Exchange since 2018. Its global headquarters is in London, and its U.S. office is in Denver.
 
The company enjoys an A+ accreditation from the Better Business Bureau and a rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 on the Trustpilot review website.
 
In the U.S., Funding Circle offers loans to businesses in all 50 states.
 If you make a late payment, Funding Circle charges a fee up to 5% of the missed remittance. If you’re worried about being hit with penalties for late payments, consider a business lender that charges lower late fees.  Funding Circle 
Funding Circle offers three primary types of business loans:
 
Loans aren’t available to businesses in the following industries:
 
Some of Funding Circle’s term loans require collateral, such as business or personal assets.
 
The company’s SBA 7(a) loans are designed for purposes such as purchasing inventory, supplying working capital, buying equipment, and consolidating debt. SBA 7(a) loans of $25,000 or less require no collateral, while loans of $25,000 to $350,000 may require liens against assets. A loan above $350,000 requires collateral consisting of business assets, a personal residence, or investment real estate.
 
Business lines of credit are ideal for covering operating costs, paying for recurring expenses, preparing for a new project, or coming up with emergency funds, says Funding Circle. Some lines of credit are secured by collateral, but others are not.
 
Funding Circle says it takes as little as six minutes to apply and as few as 24 hours to be approved after all of the necessary paperwork is submitted. A borrower can receive loan funding in as little as 48 hours after a standard term loan is finalized. Same-day funding is available for a line of credit, while funding for an SBA 7(a) loan averages 27 to 49 days.
 
Here are some general requirements for applicants seeking term loans from Funding Circle. These may not apply to every borrower or lending product.
 
Features of Funding Circle’s standard term loans include:
 The APR for a term loan from Funding Circle may not exceed 30%, however, that’s higher than the median interest rate of 23.74% in June 2023 for all credit cards in Investopedia’s database. 
Customers can get in touch with Funding Circle by phone (weekdays from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. PT) or email. The company boasts that each client is assigned their own account manager.
 
Generally, Funding Circle enjoys a solid reputation. However, some reviewers on the Better Business Bureau website complain about Funding Circle’s customer service, professionalism, and lending standards.
 
Funding Circle accepts only online applications for its term loans. Here are some of the steps to take when you’re submitting an application:
 
A business borrower might be able to land a low interest rate on a loan from Funding Circle if their credit score sits within the very good to exceptional range on FICO’s scale (740 to 850). Otherwise, the interest rate might be 20% or more—higher than the APR for many credit cards.
 
If you’ve got healthy credit, you could benefit from a Funding Circle loan, thanks to lack of fees, along with the quick approval and funding process. Keep in mind, though, that Funding Circle charges a loan origination fee that may exceed 8% and a late payment fee of 5%. Those fees, along with the potentially high interest rate, might prompt a business borrower to seek money from another lender.
 
Yes, Funding Circle can help you build business credit. Funding Circle reports on-time and late loan payments to two credit bureaus: Experian and Dun & Bradstreet.
 
Most, but not all, Funding Circle business loans are secured, which means you will you will need to provide collateral of some kind.
 
As a peer-to-peer lending platform, Funding Circle funds loans for small businesses with money from investors. It is not a bank; instead, it partners with investors and lenders to power its loans.
 
While Funding Circle has been in business since 2010 and has provided more than $19 billion in business funding, some borrowers might be put off by the lack of brick-and-mortar locations and customer service issues cited by some customers.
 
Some Funding Circle loans require collateral, such as business assets and personal assets. But not all of its loans do.
 Funding Circle. "Contact." London Stock Exchange. "Funding Circle Holdings PLC." Trustpilot. "Funding Circle." Better Business Bureau. "Funding Circle." Funding Circle. "Support." Funding Circle. “Explore Our Most Flexible Small Business Loans, With Funds in as Few as 2 Days.” Funding Circle. "Business Loan." Funding Circle. “Fixed Rates and No Hidden Fees.” Funding Circle. “Time Is Money. Money Is Money. We Save You Both.” Funding Circle. “SBA 7(a) Loans Through Funding Circle.” Funding Circle. “Fast, Flexible Funding, Ready to Go Whenever You Need It.” Funding Circle. "SBA 7(a) Loans." Funding Circle. “What You Need for Your Business Loan Application.” Funding Circle. “Get in Touch.”