NerdWallet, Inc. is an independent publisher and comparison service, not an investment advisor. Its articles, interactive tools and other content are provided to you for free, as self-help tools and for informational purposes only. They are not intended to provide investment advice. NerdWallet does not and cannot guarantee the accuracy or applicability of any information in regard to your individual circumstances. Examples are hypothetical, and we encourage you to seek personalized advice from qualified professionals regarding specific investment issues. Our estimates are based on past market performance, and past performance is not a guarantee of future performance. We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. The investing information provided on this page is for educational purposes only. NerdWallet, Inc. does not offer advisory or brokerage services, nor does it recommend or advise investors to buy or sell particular stocks, securities or other investments.  The bottom line: Trust Wallet was developed by Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, to help customers take control of their own crypto security — though people who do business with other exchanges can use it. Trust Wallet supports a wide range of digital assets, but it lacks some features offered by other wallets. Pros: Large number of supported assets; easy interoperability with Binance. Cons: Only basic offering of trading tools and educational content. Where Trust Wallet shines Where Trust Wallet falls short What Trust Wallet is best for Trust Wallet at a glance Full details about Trust Wallet's ratings Other details you should know about Trust Wallet Is Trust Wallet right for you? How we review crypto wallets Charles Schwab Robinhood Public 4.9 4.3 4.6 Fees  $0 per online equity trade Fees  $0 per trade Fees  $0 Account minimum  $0 Account minimum  $0 Account minimum  $0 Promotion  None no promotion available at this time Promotion  1 Free Stock after linking your bank account (stock value range $5.00-$200) Promotion  Earn up to $10,000 when you transfer your investment portfolio to Public. Supported assets: Trust Wallet says its software works with 100+ blockchains and more than 10 million assets. Connection to Binance: If you’re a user of Binance or its U.S. site Binance.US, the wallet makes it easy to carry out transactions through the exchange and connect to any assets you’re holding online. Security: Trust Wallet doesn’t offer two-factor authentication or multisig functionality, which are ways users can control access to their funds. However, while some users may want the convenient security of these functions, some may find the very nature of noncustodial wallets, in which you alone hold the private key, means such features don't add much to their security.  Crypto owners who use Binance’s exchange services.  People who want to store a wide variety of assets in one place. Security  Trust Wallet uses open-source software. It doesn’t offer two-factor authentication or multisignature support. Selection  Trust Wallet says it supports millions of digital assets. Integration  Trust Wallet has support for NFT storage, Web3 capabilities, staking, swaps and purchases. Storage  Trust Wallet is a hot wallet that can be connected to the Ledger cold wallet via the browser extension.  Functionality  Trust Wallet has a mobile and browser-based application, but lacks a downloadable desktop version.  Tools  Trust Wallet has some educational content along with features to help you review the performance of your crypto portfolio. As a self-custody wallet, Trust Wallet allows you to maintain control over your own digital assets. If the exchange you used to buy your cryptocurrency collapses or suffers a breach, you’ll still have the information you need to spend, trade or sell your investments. In short, even though Binance created Trust Wallet, Binance can’t access digital assets you store in your own custody. There are some considerations to storing your own crypto. If you lose your login information or someone breaches your personal devices, you won’t be able to rely on anyone else to back you up or restore lost funds. Here are a few factors to consider when comparing Trust Wallet with other self-custody wallets: Its software is open source. That means Trust Wallet’s code is reviewable by members of the public who might be able to spot concerns or vulnerabilities. However, Trust Wallet does not have two-factor authentication, which can add another layer of security when logging into a software program.  Trust Wallet’s website does not say whether it supports multisignature transaction approvals. This is another way of guarding against theft by requiring the holders of multiple wallets to sign off on transactions. Trust Wallet says its software works with 65 blockchains and 4.5 million assets.  You can use Trust Wallet to carry out many common types of functions including crypto purchases and staking. You can store and access non-fungible tokens, or NFTs, minted on the Ethereum and Binance Smartchain networks. The wallet can also connect to many Web3 and decentralized finance, or DeFi, applications.  Trust Wallet is known as a hot wallet, which means the keys to your digital assets are in your custody but on a device that connects to the internet.  A cold wallet is a distinct device that keeps your crypto offline when you want another layer of security. Trust Wallet saw a boost in its score this year by offering a way to connect Trust Wallet to the Ledge cold wallet by way of the browser extension. This lets you perform transactions from your Ledger using the Trust Wallet browser extension. You will, however, have to physically confirm transactions on the cold wallet, even if they're performed through the browser extension.  Trust Wallet offers mobile and browser-based applications, but to use it on your desktop, you'll have to use a browser extension, rather than download it. When you set up your wallet on a new device, you’ll need to enter the security/recovery phrase you got when you initially created the wallet. Trust wallet has basic tools for understanding and tracking your investments. More comprehensive educational and analytical tools are available on Binance’s website. Pricing: Trust Wallet is free to use. There may be fees for some optional features, however, such as integrated purchases from the Binance exchange or other third-party sellers. And cryptocurrencies’ underlying blockchain networks often charge transaction fees, regardless of which wallet you use. Users of Binance and other people looking for a simple, low-cost storage option may find Trust Wallet useful. But if you plan to frequently move assets back and forth between hot and cold storage, you may want to consider wallets with better conversion options. NerdWallet's comprehensive review process evaluates and ranks products that allow U.S. customers to store, send and receive cryptocurrency. We aim to provide our independent assessment of providers to help arm you with information to make sound, informed judgments on which will best meet your needs. We adhere to strict guidelines for editorial integrity. We conduct firsthand testing and observation, and the results fuel our proprietary assessment process that scores each provider's performance across more than 15 factors. The final output produces star ratings from poor (1 star) to excellent (5 stars). For more details about the categories considered when rating wallets and our process, read our full methodology. On a similar note... View NerdWallet's picks for the best crypto exchanges.   on Robinhood's website Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105