
  FAILED double glazing firm Wimborne Windows has named the company that will be liquidating the business, weeks after first telling customers it had stopped trading.
 
  As reported in December, the Ferndown-based business blamed its closure on a loss of skilled staff, the economic downturn and a wave of cancelled orders.
 
  A statement on the company’s website has been updated to refer customers to the insolvency practice McAlister & Co, based in Swansea.
 
  The site says: “If you wish to submit a claim to the liquidators please send a copy of your order form and covering email containing contact details to creditors@mcalisterco.co.uk.”
 
  In its only other public statement, Wimborne Windows has hit back at the review site Trustpilot, which in December issued it with a warning for changing its listing on the site to “Womborne Windews”.
 
  It has now changed its company description on Trustpilot, saying: “A request was made to Trustpilot for the removal of this page from the platform, however NO response has been received.
 
  “We have requested to change the spelling of company name in hope to receive some human communication opposed to automated responses from ‘Benjamin’ at the Trustpilot Content Integrity Team – the website address and liquidation email address together with registered company address has remained unchanged.
 
  “To date NO response has been received from Trustpilot or any representative – or acknowledgement of the request.”
 
  A Trustpilot spokesperson said: “The ‘About’ section of each business’s Trustpilot profile page is intended to display important information about the business, such as the services or products it specialises in.
 
  “As a result, we have changed Wimborne Windows’ company description section to only reflect information that is strictly about the business. In line with our processes, we have also sent an educational email to the business explaining how Trustpilot works, what support we can provide and also to remind them that the ‘About’ section should only include company information.
 
  “In the educational email we also explained our process for closing business’s Trustpilot pages for new reviews; informing Wimborne Windows that even if the business has entered administration or insolvency proceedings, it is important that consumers can still submit and access reviews about that business.
 
  “For example, consumers may want to know about pre-closure bookings, deliveries, cancellations, and the processing of claims. These issues continue to be relevant to the users of our platform, which is why we won’t remove the profile page.
 
  “If or when our software detects that the business’ domain is no longer active, we will close the business’ profile for new reviews. The business can also contact us via our Trustpilot contact form if they would like to inform us that their domain is dormant, and our content integrity team will then assess whether the domain can be closed for further reviews.”
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.