Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 16 May, 2023, 06:13 GMT Share this article Very strong momentum has continued into the current year with trading in H1 up 64% on pre-pandemic levels as the business accelerates towards delivering £1bn+ of platform sales in FY23 MANCHESTER, England, May 16, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Travel Counsellors, the UK's largest and fast-growing technology platform for travel entrepreneurs, is pleased to announce its Annual Results for the 12 months ended 31 October 2022 ("FY22") as well as a trading update for the first six months of the new financial year (November 1st 2022 to 30th April 2023). FY22 HIGHLIGHTS:  OUTSTANDING TRADING MOMENTUM AND STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUES IN FY23:  Steve Byrne, CEO of Travel Counsellors, commented:   "FY22 was a record year for Travel Counsellors as we delivered significant growth across the business against both the prior year and pre-pandemic levels. This outstanding momentum has continued into the first six months of the current financial year, as we have delivered consistently record-breaking months. Our strong results once again demonstrate the strength of our differentiated, disruptive business model as well as growing customer demand for our trusted and personal travel advice.   "We went into the pandemic with outstanding levels of customer engagement and satisfaction. Whilst the pandemic significantly disrupted our customers' ability to travel, we were resolutely committed to maintaining close relationships with them and protecting our brand's hard-earned reputation. I am delighted we have maintained our five-star Trustpilot rating despite the significant levels of disruption and uncertainty facing our customers during this period.  "This is testament to the relentless hard work, commitment and care shown by our Travel Counsellor business owners, who are dedicated to putting their customers first and ensuring they are there for them for every step of their journey. Equally our employed colleagues who work so hard to support our franchisee community and ensure they continue to build thriving businesses using our personal, digital platform of support which combines the very best of people and technology. I'd also like to thank all our customers across both our leisure and corporate businesses who continue to place value in the trusted and caring service provided by their Travel Counsellor.     "I am extremely confident that we are exceptionally well placed to further build on our significant growth over the coming years. We are focused on continuing to disrupt the travel market through superb, personalised service and our scalable, relevant and differentiated business model. We are accelerating rapidly towards being a £1bn+ transaction platform in the near future and look forward to serving more customers and helping more travel entrepreneurs to grow their businesses in the years ahead."  Enquiries Alex Brennan / Sue Hutchinson / Rebekah Chapman at Hudson Sandler +44 (0) 207 796 4133 travelcounsellors@hudsonsandler.com About Travel Counsellors Vitruvian Partners-backed Travel Counsellors is the UK's largest and fast-growing technology platform for travel entrepreneurs that connects over 1,900 independent business owners, ultimately enabling them to deliver exceptional levels of customer service. In the year to 31 October 2022, Total Transaction Value ("TTV") on the platform was more than £700m, up more than 300% against the prior year. Travel Counsellors operates across six countries (UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium, South Africa, and the UAE) and employs 300 people in its UK headquarters and overseas offices. The Company provides a high touch, digitally enabled platform, that enables and empowers travel counsellors, who are travel entrepreneurs and small business owners, to harness innovative and constantly evolving tools and technology to build their businesses in a way that suits them, with limitless potential and scale. This is underpinned by the knowledge and power of a global community and strong people-first culture.  The company operates its own ATOL supported financial trust which safeguards customers from any failure of a travel supplier involved in their booking.  Travel Counsellors is multi-award-winning and has a five star, 'Excellent' rating on Trustpilot. It was founded in 1994.  For further information about Travel Counsellors, please visit: https://www.travelcounsellors.co.uk/our-story/ 1 TTV refers to the gross value of transactions conducted through the Travel Counsellors platform. FY22 numbers in this release may differ in reporting methodology from the rolling underlying TTV numbers which the Company periodically provides news updates on. 2 Revenue comprises both the commission the Company earns as an agent as well as the business it transacts as principal  3 Adjusted for Trust Income and exceptional items  The announcement of the snap UK general election in May prompted nearly a third of Brits to alter their holiday plans, according to new consumer... While Brits face tighter budgets as inflation rises, appetite for travel remains strong according to the Travel Tracker Report from Travel... Banking & Financial Services Computer & Electronics Travel Multimedia & Internet