Octopus Energy Group has struck a deal with BYD for Octopus EV to purchase 5,000 new electric vehicles (EVs) from the Chinese carmaker over the next three years. As part of the agreement, Octopus EV will also become BYD’s recommended salary sacrifice partner for their business customers in the UK. The initial order will include the BYD Atto 3, an all-electric SUV, making its debut in the UK this month (March). The car has an official range of 260 miles range and is the latest EV model to be offered by Octopus EV, which now has more than 85 cars available to customers. Oliver Boots, chief commercial officer at Octopus EV, said: “When Octopus Electric Vehicles launched, there were only a handful of EVs on the market - we’re now at more than 85 and the figure is rising all the time. “Customers have an amazing range of models to choose from, all of which are at the cutting edge of tech and are fun to drive. Being able to partner with BYD as they launch in the UK is a real milestone. “They’re a global leader and we’re looking forward to being able to offer our 5-star Trustpilot service to customers - accelerating our growth and moving us another step closer to zero emission transport in the UK.” Michael Shu, general manager and managing director of BYD Europe and International Cooperation Division, added: “We are delighted to enter this cooperation with Octopus EV. This is an exciting new chapter for BYD as we bring our latest products and leading technologies to customers in the UK, as shown in our innovative range of electric passenger cars, starting with the BYD Atto 3. “BYD staunchly believes in partnerships with like-minded organisations, and our shared commitment to eMobility and sustainable innovation for a greener future, endorses our mutual aims.” Octopus Electric Vehicles was launched with a simple mission; to make it easy for drivers to switch to clean, electric transport. The business sits within the wider Octopus Energy Group, which is expanding rapidly having received $900 million in funding over the past two years, giving it a valuation of $5 billion. > Interested in comparing electric vehicle data? Check out our EV tool. > Interested in ensuring the efficient use of EVs. Check out our dedicated editorial sections: Insight & policy | EV news | Charging & infrastructure | Costs & incentives | Benefit-in-kind | EV case studies | EV road tests > EVs by range > EVs by their efficiency > Rapid charging EVs > EVs by price: lowest to highest  In this report Why actions, not data are key to telematics success Tackling the issues around offering company car or cash EV transition sparks funding trend changes - but are they good for business? How to tackle the cost and safety concerns of grey fleet Five ways to control or reduce fleet fuel costs How lower BIK tax is helping revive salary sacrifice Replacement cycles: depreciation versus SMR Fleet management software - gaining insights that matter 'Why fleets need flexibility to be cost effective' - special report in association with Holman Options available to tackling rising costs of insurance premiums Understanding EV impact on accident management How AI will cut SMR costs     
Gareth has more than 20 years’ experience as a journalist having started his career in local newspapers in the 1990s. Prior to joining Fleet News in 2008, he worked in the public sector as a media advisor and is currently news editor at Fleet News.    
 Gareth has more than 20 years’ experience as a journalist having started his career in local newspapers in the 1990s. Prior to joining Fleet News in 2008, he worked in the public sector as a media advisor and is currently news editor at Fleet News.     No comments have been made yet.   Register to receive our range of digital content, including newsletters and special reports. Fleet News, Media House, Lynch Wood Peterborough, PE2 6EA 
© Bauer Consumer Media Ltd - Media House, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, PE2 6EA - Registered number 01176085
 
www.fleetnews.co.uk is the leading website for the UK fleet sector with an 91% market share (average UK site visits in 2023), according to SEMRush. H Bauer Publishing are authorised and regulated for credit broking by the FCA (Ref No: 845898)
 By submitting any material to us you are confirming that the material is your own original work or that you have permission from the copyright owner to use the material and to authorise Bauer Consumer Media to use it as described in this paragraph. You also promise that you have permission from anyone featured or referred to in the submitted material to it being used by Bauer Consumer Media. If Bauer Consumer Media receives a claim from a copyright owner or a person featured in any material you have sent us, we will inform that person that you have granted us permission to use the relevant material and you will be responsible for paying any amounts due to the copyright owner or featured person and/or for reimbursing Bauer Consumer Media for any losses it has suffered as a result.