Our evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission from our partners’ links. This content is created by TIME Stamped, under TIME’s direction and produced in accordance with TIME’s editorial guidelines and overseen by TIME’s editorial staff. Learn more about it. Planning to travel in 2024? You're not alone. According to the U.S Travel Association, a trade group, travel has bounced back after the pandemic, with Americans forecasted to spend a staggering $1.09 trillion on domestic and international travel this year. This surge, however, comes with its challenges, as travel costs have soared to unprecedented heights, fueled by increased demand and price inflation. In this era of heightened travel expenses, safeguarding your journey is paramount. Enter travel insurance, a crucial shield against the uncertainties that may arise during your adventures. To help you navigate this crucial decision, we've compiled a list of the best travel insurance companies. Join us as we explore these top choices, ensuring your travels are not only memorable but also financially protected. Travel insurance policies typically include the following coverages. The Travelex “Basic” plan provides $15,000 of medical and $10,000 of trip cancellation coverage. These coverage amounts are lower than those offered by other companies in our review. However, higher limits are available by selecting the company’s “Select” plan. Among its upgrade options, Travelex offers adventure sports coverage for those whose itinerary includes such adrenaline-rush activities as zip lining, skydiving, or mountain climbing. This coverage can be added to any Travelex plan. It’s also worth noting that Travelex is one of the highest-rated travel insurance providers on Trustpilot, having earned 4.1 out of five stars (as of Feb. 14, 2024). One recent reviewer noted, "I've always been skeptical of trip insurance and all the promises of straightforward claim processes, but I was blown away with how responsive, simple, and logical the Travelex was. I decline all trip insurance for any travel booking I do now and only use Travelex. Cheaper, more efficient, less red tape. What's not to love?” Generali Global Assistance is a European company with insurance services focusing on travel and identity protection. Its “Standard” plan for travel insurance provides $50,000 of medical expense coverage and trip cancellation coverage for 100% of the insured value. The plan also includes travel delay, baggage damage, baggage delay, and missed connection coverage. Options such as rental car collision damage and upgrade plans allow you to travel with even more coverage. Generali has 3.4 out of five stars with Trustpilot (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). Many American consumers may not immediately recognize AXA Travel Insurance, but the company is a multinational financial services giant headquartered in France.  Its “Silver” plan—AXA’s entry-level travel insurance offering—includes coverage for $25,000 of emergency medical expenses and 100% of the insured trip cost if the trip is canceled. Additional coverages include trip delay, missed connection, medical evacuation, and baggage coverage. The company’s “Platinum” plan provides “cancel for any reason” trip cancellation coverage. This means you can cancel your trip for any reason—personal, professional, medical, family, or other—and expect to receive reimbursement. This contrasts with standard trip cancellation coverage, in which the cancellation must be for one of the specific reasons stated in the policy contract. The “Platinum” plan also includes higher amounts of emergency medical expenses and other coverages. AXA has 2.9 out of 5 stars in its Trustpilot rating (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). AIG is a leading global provider of insurance for both individuals and businesses. Its Travelguard “Essential” plan offers $15,000 of emergency medical coverage and trip cancellation coverage for 100% of the insured cost of the trip. Higher coverage amounts are available with the company’s “Preferred” and “Deluxe” plans. AIG Travelguard also offers its unusual “Pack N’ Go” plan, designed for last-minute travelers who don't need trip cancellation coverage. This plan includes up to $1,000 of trip interruption and $25,000 of medical expense coverage, along with coverages for trip delays, missed connections, and lost luggage. AIG promises quotes on its website in less than two minutes, making it easy to include Travelguard in your comparison shopping. Travelguard has 1.7 out of 5 stars on Trustpilot, though this is based on only 64 reviews (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). Traveling outside of the U.S.? You’ll want to work with an insurer that offers not only robust coverage, but a variety of plans and options that can fit your needs. Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz Travel) is one such company. Its “Basic” plan includes $10,000 of both trip interruption and emergency medical expense coverage. The company offers several plans with higher coverage, along with an “Emergency Medical” plan focused primarily on medical coverage. Allianz also offers several annual policy plans for those who intend to travel multiple times a year. And if you’re considering renting a car during your international trip, you can add an optional damage and theft coverage. The company’s “OneTrip Prime” plan extends coverage for free to children under age 17 who are traveling with a parent or grandparent, making it ideal for international family vacations. Allianz claims the plan is its most popular, with up to $100,000 of trip cancellation and $50,000 of emergency medical coverage. Allianz earns 4.4 out of five stars in its Trustpilot rating (accessed Feb. 14, 2024), including 75% five-star reviews. Medical expense coverage is an important feature of travel insurance. This is especially true if you journey outside of the U.S., where your personal health insurance may not provide coverage. Seven Corners is an excellent choice for those seeking generous medical coverage in a travel insurance plan. Its Basic policy provides up to $100,000 of emergency medical expenses, which is more than any other plan in our review. It also provides up to $250,000 of coverage for emergency evacuation, which helps reimburse your costs of transportation to a qualified medical facility if you have a serious illness or injury during your trip. Seven Corners has a Trustpilot rating of 4.2 out of 5.0 stars (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). Berkshire Hathaway is one of the country’s largest companies (currently seventh on the Fortune 500). It’s also the parent company of auto insurance giant GEICO. Berkshire Hathaway’s “ExactCare Value” policy plan includes $15,000 of medical coverage and trip cancellation coverage of 100% of the insured value of the trip. The plan also includes coverage for lost baggage, baggage delay, trip delay, and emergency evacuation. Berkshire Hathaway offers a specialized insurance plan for luxury travel. This plan features higher medical and trip cancellation coverage limits, $2,500 worth of lost baggage coverage, $35,000 of car rental collision coverage, and 24/7 worldwide travel assistance. Berkshire Hathaway Travel Insurance does not currently have a Trustpilot rating (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). Nationwide is one of the country's most recognizable insurance brands, with policies available for homes, cars, and businesses. The company also offers travel insurance. Its “Single-trip Essential” travel insurance plan provides $75,000 in medical emergency coverage. This is the most coverage of any of the companies in our review. Nationwide’s $10,000 limit for trip cancellation is lower than that of other plans, however. Higher limits are available with its “Prime” plan, along with a cancel-for-any-reason option that pays 75% of the insured trip cost. The plan also includes a variety of additional coverages, such as trip delay, baggage delay, emergency medical evacuation, and optional rental car coverage. Nationwide also offers a separate, specialized travel insurance policy for those embarking on cruises. Besides expected coverages such as trip cancellation and emergency medical, it covers itinerary changes, mechanical breakdown, and missed connections. Nationwide has earned 1.5 out of 5 stars in its Trustpilot rating, based on only 42 reviews (accessed Feb. 14, 2024). Tin Leg travel insurance policy plans are underwritten by Berkshire Hathaway and other companies. Its “Economy” plan includes trip cancellation coverage at 100% of the insured cost and $20,000 of emergency medical coverage. The company offers a variety of additional travel insurance plans with varying levels of coverage. If you’re traveling to participate in a sports event and bringing your expensive gear, Tin Leg could be a great choice. Its “Economy” plan includes coverage for loss of, or damage to, sporting equipment (such as a bicycle or skis). It also reimburses your event registration fees if your trip is canceled or interrupted. Tin Leg has a Trustpilot rating of 1.5 out of 5 stars (accessed Feb. 14, 2024), though this is based on only 26 reviews. To develop our recommendations, we gathered information about several leading travel insurance providers from their websites and third-party reviews, where available. We focused on the range of essential coverages, including emergency medical coverage and trip cancellation coverage, along with the availability of 24/7 customer support during travel. Where it existed, we noted each company’s policy cancellation terms. We reviewed the most economical plan for each company that included both medical and trip cancellation coverage. We also noted optional coverages and upgraded plans that provide higher levels of coverage or specialty coverages for niche travel. Policy cost information is based on a party of two U.S. travelers, age 30, traveling to the United Kingdom for seven days, and a total trip cost of $6,000. Quotes were obtained on each company’s website. This information is for comparison purposes only. Please verify policy details before purchasing. Follow these tips to choose the best travel insurance company for your needs. Your travel insurance needs for a Caribbean cruise may differ significantly from those for a backpacking trip through the Swiss Alps. Your first step should be to outline your travel expense budget and list the activities in which you plan to participate (note that some policies include optional coverage for certain activities, such as adventure sports). Also, consider your health status, as some policies require you to pay extra for certain pre-existing health conditions. Check if you might already have some travel insurance readily available to you. Some credit card companies offer coverage if you use their card to pay for your trip. Coverage may also be available from a tour operator or an airline. You can also get recommendations from a travel agent or an independent insurance agent. You'll discover that each travel insurance provider offers varying levels of standard coverage, such as trip cancellation and emergency medical expense, along with optional coverages. They typically also offer multiple plans (think "good," "better," and "best"). Review these and select a few providers that offer the coverages you need. As with any other type of insurance, travel insurance costs vary among companies. Check with at least three or four to ensure that you're getting the coverage you want at a price you can afford. If you need to file a travel insurance claim, call the insurance company. Each company has its own process for claim filing. You'll want to be sure you have the proper claim forms and understand what supporting documentation the company requires. Be sure to follow the company's instructions for submitting your claim request. It can take several weeks for a travel insurance claim to be paid. Be sure to watch for any follow-up requests from your insurer (such as requests for additional documentation) and respond promptly to avoid unnecessary delays. Business and pleasure travel alike have bounced back from the pandemic. However, traveling has also become much more expensive, thanks to inflation and increased demand. If you plan to head to some far-off destination—whether by air, road, rail, or ship—consider buying travel insurance. A policy reimburses covered medical costs, trip interruption, and other snags that may befall your trip. Your travel insurance cost will vary based on the amount of coverage purchased, the number of travelers, the age of the travelers, and your trip destination. Travel insurance costs also vary by insurance company, underscoring the need to shop around for coverage. If you’re concerned about getting sick, be sure to choose a policy that includes coverages such as emergency medical (which helps pay for your medical expenses) and emergency medical transport (which helps pay for transportation to a hospital). Travel insurance is worth considering for a cruise. As insurer Allianz notes, a policy can help you recoup costs if you need to cancel at the last minute, have a medical emergency while on board or at a stop (regular health insurance may not provide coverage outside of the U.S.), or if you miss the ship all together due to a delay by your airline. If you’re planning to take multiple trips in a single year, you might want to consider multi-trip insurance (also called “annual” travel insurance). This type of policy typically provides trip interruption, emergency medical expense, trip delay, and other coverages at a price that’s less than buying a policy for each trip. Some credit cards do offer varying levels of travel insurance, including trip interruption, medical expense, trip delay, and emergency evacuation coverage. Check your credit card terms and conditions or benefits statement to understand what coverage may be provided. The card_name card offers one of the best portfolios of travel insurance benefits, including $100,000 of emergency transportation coverage, $2,500 of emergency medical and dental coverage, and up to $20,000 of trip interruption coverage. The information presented here is created by TIME Stamped and overseen by TIME editorial staff. To learn more, see our About Us page.