Chantelle Otten attended fashion week with an X-rated accessory – and the sex expert wasn’t the only one wearing the racy jewellery. A popular sex expert has caused a stir at Afterpay Australian Fashion Week after revealing the stunning necklace she was wearing was actually a sex toy.  Chantelle Otten, a Melbourne-based psycho-sexologist, attended the Karla Špetić runway show on Thursday night.  The 32-year-old rocked the $755 “blue lagoon” dress from the Australian designer which featured a “cut out panel at the front bust” and flaunts a “bare back”.  It also gave onlookers a cheeky glimpse of sideboob. But while the slinky silk number is an undeniably sexy dress, her outfit wasn’t the reason Ms Otten was turning heads at the annual fashion event held in Sydney.  Instead, all eyes were on her accessories, which were a mix of various sex toys.  Ms Otten, who is a paid ambassador for sexual wellness brand Lovehoney, had an adult item hanging loosely around her neck.  She also had several bedroom products, which are commonly hidden away in drawers, in her clear clutch bag.  “The fusion of fashion and sexual wellness is a powerful statement, and it resonates deeply with my own beliefs,” she wrote on Instagram. “Last night was wonderful and I felt high vibrations from the show and a sense of empowerment, confidence, and a celebration of pleasure.  “It’s an unforgettable experience that captivates both the fashion world and the realm of sexual liberation.”  RELATED: Tammy Hembrow stuns at fashion week party Ms Otten, who has been dating Tennis legend Dylan Alcott for almost four years, went on to explain she was “honoured to embrace this incredible opportunity to wear Karla’s beautiful design with @lovehoneyofficial pieces”. “[The] beautiful vibrator necklace, expertly incorporated into Karla’s vision,” she said.  Karla Špetić said she had designed her latest collection, which was shown at Sydney’s Carriageworks, on a quote from Chilean poet Pablo Neruda: “I crave a love so deep, the ocean would be jealous.” Ms Otten’s 191,000 followers were quick to commend the bold accessory, labelling the daring fashion look a “vision”.  “The dress! The necklace! Everything!” one wrote.  “You look like PERFECTION,” another declared.  As another said: “Helloooo goddess.” “No way is that a sex toy,” one bloke mused. Ms Otten wasn’t the only person at the Karla Špetić show modelling the adult accessories, with models in the runway also clutching them at various moments in the spectacle. The show featured an array of pastel colours and designs featuring cut outs and sheer fabrics.  A young Australian business owner has exposed a gross norm in her industry that she is absolutely fed up with. A swimwear brand has been accused of an “appalling and disrespectful” act, with many labelling it “horrifying”. A world-first report of size inclusivity at Australian Fashion Week has painted a grim picture of representation in our local industry. Our Apps