Now, who’s ready?  Every item on this page was chosen by an ELLE editor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy. Early spring is a weird time to shop (and that’s coming from someone who shops for a living). Temperatures linger on the cooler end of the spectrum, making it mentally tough to indulge in your high summer pieces (a.k.a. one-piece swimsuits, denim cutoffs, and summer cocktail dresses), while remaining too warm to add any more cold-weather items to your wardrobe. However, the transitional period between seasons is always a good time to shop (a round of applause for the rotation of collections!). Case in point: Nordstrom’s Spring Sale, which is running now through April 9.  In celebration of the new season (and to make room for newness in general), Nordstrom is offering up to 60 percent off new markdowns—and that includes options from the home, beauty, and fashion departments. And if you’re like me, my bet is you’re focusing on upping your wardrobe for spring. Well, you’ve come to the right place. I took a glance at the sale as soon as it launched to find the best on-sale pieces worth adding to your closet; check them all out below, before they sell out. An easy, breezy button-down shirt that’ll work perfectly as a cover-up for beach days.  In my opinion, one can never have too many black jeans. Wear these to the office and then out at night. Start prepping all of those wedding guest looks—you know they’ll be centered around this clutch. Can you feel it? Summer is well on its way, which means now’s the time to get a new pair of denim cutoffs. Not gonna lie, this is just plain cute. I’d wear it to the gym or on a coffee run—the sky’s the limit.  The first time I saw this dress, I knew it would be a staple in my closet. Whether you wear it to a garden party or a summer wedding, this will be an easy (and comfortable) look worth keeping on hand.  If you want to give it more shape, simply add on a belt. Who doesn’t love a good jumpsuit?! Good American’s take on the utilitarian staple is sure to be a go-to in your wardrobe. I’ve worn these bralettes for years, and they never fail me. I trust that they’ll do the same for you. This time of year is all about layering, so definitely opt for this cozy cardigan. Never underestimate the power of a good, slightly oversized blazer. Cashmere for summer? Oh, it’s happening. I mean, if you’re going to splurge on a trend while shopping this sale, let it be on this micro-miniskirt. It’ll look so cool with a simple T-shirt and a leather jacket. I don’t think I’ve seen a more appropriate dress for spring.  Okay, it’s still a little chilly out. Which means you’ll need a lightweight jacket...like this one. Dale Arden Chong is the senior fashion commerce editor at ELLE.com, where she edits and reports on the latest trends, labels, and designers in the fashion space to bring you the best items that will elevate your wardrobe. With a passion for great sartorial stories and getting dressed (as well as a knack for nerding out over the details), she has a robust knowledge of high-quality design, construction, and materials based on testing hundreds of products over her eight-plus years in the industry. So, if you ask her for a shopping recommendation, she’ll give you five picks plus her honest, unfiltered opinions. Outside of the style world, her hobbies include cooking, playing tennis, ceramics, and watching BTS dance videos on YouTube, among other things. Follow her on Instagram at @dalearden.  Editor-Approved Buys at Reformation’s Summer Sale  8 Chic Outfits to Wear to the U.S. Open The ELLE Guide to Loewe’s Most Iconic Handbags Here Are the 16 Greatest Fall Candles of All Time  There’s a New Gucci Bag in Town The Launch: Fashion News to Know This August 3 Elevated Ways to Nail the Beachcore Trend 7 Chic Outfits That Scream Rich Girl Energy  The ‘90s Called; They Want Their Jorts Back  52 Gifts That College Students Will Actually Use The Best Sneakers in 2024, Recommended by Experts  14 Friendship Bracelets for Friendship Day A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.