Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account  This morning, Vogue Business published “Debunking The Dream”: an investigative reporting series that lays bare the realities of working within fashion. More than 600 professionals working in an industry glamourised for its proximity to fame and fortune, provide unfiltered insight into the often untenable demands it places on its workforce. Through self-sacrifice and burnout, vast inequities in salaries and discrimination, fashion is at risk of alienating its most loyal supporters. In a business where hard work so often goes unnoticed (let alone remunerated), the opportunity to take a collective pause and acknowledge the achievements that have been made can be all too rare. (Fashion, after all, is worth more to the UK economy than the film, music, fishing, pharmaceutical and automobile industries combined.) Today’s announcement from the British Fashion Council, then, is a welcome one. The BFC has announced the first batch of nominees for the 2023 Fashion Awards. Its purpose is twofold: to maintain the lustre of British fashion on the international stage, and celebrate those individuals who ensure its reputation stretches beyond the UK. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. For the first time, the British Fashion Council will recognise burgeoning designers across both menswear and womenswear categories. Dubbed The New Establishment Award, nominees for the menswear prize include Bianca Saunders and Saul Nash, while Chopova Lowena, Supriya Lele and Dilara Findikoglu have all had nods in the womenswear category. The line-up for Model of the Year is also the most diverse it’s ever been, with Alton Mason, Anok Yai, Kai-Isaiah Jamal, Liu Wen, Mona Tougaard, and Paloma Elsesser all in the running. All winners will be revealed on 4 December 2023 at the Royal Albert Hall. Elsewhere, the ceremony will return to its pre-pandemic tradition of crowning established figures with separate British Menswear Designer and British Womenswear Designer awards. The contenders run the gamut from Kiko Kostadinov to Kim Jones, Martine Rose to Grace Wales Bonner, and Maximilian Davis to Simone Rocha. With further categories yet to be announced (including two Special Recognition Awards and an Outstanding Achievement Award) 1,000 members of the industry have been asked to cast their votes, while the Model of the Year will be decided by the public. Tickets for The Fashion Awards 2023 are available here. Scroll down for the full list of nominees. Alton Mason Anok Yai Kai-Isaiah Jamal Liu Wen Mona Tougaard Paloma Elsesser Grace Wales Bonner Kiko Kostadinov Kim Jones Martine Rose Seven Stokey Daley Erdem Maximilian Davis for Ferragamo Nensi Dojaka Roksanda Simone Rocha Bianca Saunders Corteiz Labrum Nicolas Daley Saul Nash Chopova Lowena Dilara Findikoglu KNWLS Robert Wun Supriya Lele Read Kylie Jenner’s September Cover Interview In Full Join British Vogue’s Whatsapp Channel Subscribe To The Vogue Daily Newsletter The 10 Best Sunglasses Brands That Come Vogue-Approved 12 Signs You’re Deficient In Vitamin B12 – And How To Fix It More from Vogue Condé Nast Britain © 2024 Condé Nast