Our evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission from our partners’ links. This content is created by TIME Stamped, under TIME’s direction and produced in accordance with TIME’s editorial guidelines and overseen by TIME’s editorial staff. Learn more about it. While menswear is an infinitely less sprawling and varied field than womenswear—often regrettably so—there are a huge number of brands out there, each offering their own take on men’s fashion. Any worthwhile brand will have its own identity and key selling points, so we’ve rounded up our favorites based on popular men’s style categories. Slip into something comfortable while we run down our choices for the best men’s clothing brands. “Even though it might technically be considered fast fashion, Uniqlo is usually a head and shoulders above the competition in terms of quality,” says style expert and digital creator Gabrielle Johnson. “They offer a great selection of wardrobe staples (their men's t-shirts and cashmere sweaters are favorites among the style crowd), and they’re known for collaborating with fashion’s heavy hitters, including JW Anderson (aka the creative director of Loewe and his own namesake label), Helmut Lang, and Jil Sander.” Uniqlo has always been a reliable place for buying jeans ($49.90, pictured), which come in a wide range of styles, shapes, and colors, and generally have a little bit of stretch to them. It’s also a perfect place to pick up your white t-shirts, workout shirts, socks, and underwear— Uniqlo’s Airism underwear ($14.90) in particular is life changing for those who don’t appreciate the effects of hot, muggy weather. A brief word of warning from fashion expert and retail executive Todd Hanshaw, though: “The fast fashion brands such as Zara, H&M, and Uniqlo are the most affordable for the short term, but in the long term, fast fashion is less sustainable than other brands and tends to have a shorter life while creating a larger cost for the environment.” “For outdoor brands, I really love Patagonia,” says fashion and lifestyle journalist Max Berlinger. “I think they’re really well made, they flirt with trendiness in the right way, and they are seriously dedicated to fair business practices and sustainability. I believe most things come with a solid warranty as well.” For those with a real passion for getting outside, Patagonia’s beloved R1 TechFace Hoodie ($189, pictured) is well worth checking out, but you can also pick up a recycled cashmere sweater ($199) while you’re there, along with some of the best running shorts we’ve found on the market. “For casual men’s clothes, I think J.Crew is offering some interesting stuff again,” says Berlinger. “A good mix of casual, everyday stuff—button-downs ($79.50, pictured), khakis, and the like—with a little funky stuff mixed in, like their ‘big chino’ ($98), which is a good way for guys interested in fashion to experiment with wider pants,” he says. “Club Monaco, Banana Republic, and J.Crew are the holy trinity of casually stylish (but not too stylish), accessible, and relatively affordable menswear,” says Johnson. “The key is to wait for their big sales and replenish your wardrobe without blowing the budget.” “Outerknown is really a brand pinnacle when it comes to sustainability,” says Hanshaw. “Originally a women's brand, they’ve expanded out to the men's market and they are truly sustainable, from the fabrics and construction, to concerns of water waste and how their people are treated. Truly, a high standard that many should reach to achieve.” Do your part for the Earth while also treating yourself to some new chino shorts ($118, pictured), or this sweet, 70s-style sweater ($178). “Quality comes from the fabrics and construction of the garments,” explains Hanshaw. “A great example is the cashmere from Loro Piana. While they make a great quality product, their cashmere is the standout, so respected in the industry that it’s also sold to and used by many other brands to use within their own collections.” Johnson agrees, suggesting that, “If you’re after that quiet luxury aesthetic and have wads of cash burning a hole in your cashmere cardigan pocket, tell your driver to take you to the nearest Loro Piana boutique to stock up on wildly expensive sweaters ($3,995, pictured), impeccably tailored Bermuda shorts, and the brand’s signature loafers ($1,075).” They might be minimalist, but COS’ clothes are beautifully made, with even a simple striped tee ($59, pictured) transformed into something you could wear just about anywhere. Their coats ($290), too, are elegant and stylish while eschewing any overtly flashy touches. “For minimalist clothing, COS has some really nice stuff,” says Berlinger. “I’d go in and try things on before buying, though, as they have some kookier fits.” Cos’ commitment to sustainability is less kooky, thankfully, with the brand aiming to use only 100% sustainable or recycled materials, and 100% recycled, reusable, or compostable packaging, by 2025. “Loewe is one of the hottest labels in fashion right now, with a menswear offering that’s playful and irreverent yet eminently wearable,” says Johnson. “The clothes aren’t cheap, of course, but we’re talking about future collector’s items here, and isn’t there something vaguely priceless about that? Just go with it.” If you’re inclined to splurge, grab this cool asymmetrical shirt ($750, pictured), this gorgeous biker jacket ($5,900), or at the more unusual end of the scale, this completely bonkers pixelated hoodie ($2,500). “Luxury is about quality of fabrics and construction, although it is often confused with prestige,” says Hanshaw. “If I were to pick a true luxury brand as far as fabrics and construction, I would pick Brunello Cuccinelli or Tom Ford.” We’ve gone with the latter option here, and not just because we’re also fans of the brand’s colognes for men. Although never cheap, most of Tom Ford’s offerings have a certain timeless quality to them, sophisticated without being overstated, like this Shelton cotton and silk poplin tuxedo jacket ($4,500, pictured) – hey, we said luxury, not everyday. That’s not to say the clothes can’t get wild, of course, as this leopard print silk shirt ($1,420) cheekily demonstrates. “When it comes to shopping for men’s clothes, you want to think about building a foundation of staples and timeless classics before adding trendy pieces to your wardrobe,” suggests Johnson. “I would advise against shopping at fad-driven fast fashion retailers like Zara and H&M. You want to choose clothes that are going to last, not only in terms of style but also quality, and that $7 t-shirt from H&M is probably going to fall apart the second time you wash it. Buy the best basics you can afford, since those will be the things you'll wear the most. Look for natural fibers (think cotton, wool, and silk, not polyester or nylon) and look for telltale signs of a poorly made garment (wonky stitching or loose buttons) before committing to a purchase.” “Fit and quality are key,” insists Berlinger, when asked what to look for in menswear. “It has to be something that you think looks good on you and hopefully, doesn’t require much additional tailoring or adjustments. Go to stores and try things on—feeling how things are made and seeing them on your body is just an important part of the process. Look at how seams are sewn: Are there little stray threads? Hold it up to the light: Is it basically transparent, or is it a sturdier fabric?” In terms of figuring out your size, “Trial and error will tell you which brands fit best for your body type,” advises Hanshaw. “Sizing gets you into the ballpark, but it’s not uncommon to go up or down in size, depending on the brand, and American brands tend to have larger fits than European brands.” Finally, just remember that nothing looks good on everybody, and it may take time to discover what’s right for you personally. “As with sunglasses, there may be these vague rules out there, but everyone’s body is different, and until you go and try things on, it’s really hard to make an informed choice,” adds Berlinger. “Once you find something you love, buy a few (if you can)!” Our picks were made alongside our three experts with decades of experience in the fashion realm between them—Gabrielle Johnson, Max Berlinger, and Todd Hanshaw—to ensure as wide a range of styles, price points, and functions as possible, while ensuring quality and wearability. The information presented here is created by TIME Stamped and overseen by TIME editorial staff. To learn more, see our About Us page.