Within a day of his appointment, Lt Gen (retd) Jahangir Alam Chowdhury reopened a file of 2009 Bangladesh Rifles mutiny. He might try to blame ousted PM Sheikh Hasina, her family members and India for playing a "role" in the mutiny that led to the killings of several army officers, said the people cited earlier. India's 24 nuclear power plants (NPPs) account for 8,080 MWe, which is 2.76 % of India's energy-generation mix. India aims to increase it from 8,180 MW to 22,480 MW by 2031. After India's long historical isolation from international nuclear trade until 2008, the ambition was to scale up and opt for larger-size NPPs. Army Chief Gen Upendra Dwivedi met with senior generals to align the Indian Army’s transformation with India’s 2047 development goals. Key discussions included modernisation, joint operations enhancement, and promoting self-reliance in equipment and technology. The meeting aimed at making the Army more agile, adaptive, and capable of addressing future multi-domain challenges. Vinesh Phogat returned to India after a disqualification in the women's 50kg wrestling final at the Paris Olympics 2024. She received an enthusiastic welcome in her hometown. Despite her Olympic setback, Vinesh encouraged local women to pursue wrestling and remains committed to her ongoing battle with the Wrestling Federation of India. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) sold $2.11 billion on a net basis in the spot foreign exchange market in June, data released on Monday as part of the central bank's monthly bulletin showed. * Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 2019, Company/LLP Data, (Government of India administrative body to govern and regulate corporate affairs through the Companies Act 1956 & 2013 including other allied Acts, Bills and Rules) http://www.mca.gov.in/, Updated as on 04 Dec, 2018. Please Note: Data on this page may not be updated vis-à-vis company’s current credentials. Quick Links Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Latest News Follow us on: LoadingPlease wait...