
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 
                                                                                        Ethiopia’s bold economic reforms target stability and growth, but they come with risks                                         

                                                                                        Is Australia ‘giving away’ its natural resources?                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line                                         

                                                                                        Air Jordan 17 Low 'UNC' Returns August 28th for $300—Where to Buy 'Diffused Blue'                                         

                                                                                        Ex-Google CEO Turns Arms Dealer, Unleashes AI Attack Drones to Alter Ukraine War                                         

                                                                                        10 Popular Burger King Items That Have Seen Dramatic Price Hikes Over the Past Decade                                         

                                                                                        Circle K Operator Alimentation Couche-Tard Bids to Acquire 7-Eleven's Japanese Owner                                         

                                                                                        Seven & i Holdings to Launch Renewable Energy Subsidiary, Powering 7-Eleven Stores in Japan                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                         

                                                                                        Japan’s Economy Rebounds with 3.1% Growth, Driven by Consumer Spending and Business Investment                                         

                                                                                        Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals                                         

                                                                                        Samsung Leads the Race to Make CXL Memory the Next Big Thing in AI                                         

                                                                                        Japan Stocks Surge Over 2%, Leading Mixed Asia-Pacific Markets Amid Global Economic Uncertainty                                         

                                                                                        Intel to Launch Arrow Lake-S 'Core Ultra 200' Desktop CPUs on October 10                                         

                                                                                        Hibiscus Petroleum Targets Asia-Pacific Acquisitions as Big Oil Divests Amid Decarbonization Push                                         

                                                                                        Raising revenue from land: what African cities might learn from Hong Kong’s unique land-lease system                                         

                                                                                        U.K. Economy Shows Strong Growth Amid Lower Inflation and Rising Consumer Confidence                                                 Photo by: SK Inc. Media Center SK hynix, Samsung Electronics Ink MOU with South Korea's Ministry for Advanced Semiconductor Packaging Tech SK On, Mercedes-Benz Execs Meet Up to Discuss EV Business Cooperation SK Inc. got rid of its stake in Socar car-sharing platform. The holding and IT services company based in Seoul sold all of its shares to Lotte Rental for KRW146 billion, which is about $110.5 million in US dollars. SK Inc., the investment unit of SK Group, confirmed the sale of its stake to Lotte Rental on Thursday, Aug. 31. The portion of the unloaded share is equivalent to 17.9%, and the company made this move to raise a profit of about KRW40 billion. According to Korea Joongang Daily, once the acquisition is completed, Lotte Rental will become the second largest shareholder of Socar, with its shares going up to 32.9%. With the deal, SK Inc. is looking to gain a 148% rate of return since it purchased its Socar stake in 2015 for only KRW59 billion. "Through the selloff, SK Inc., we plan to accelerate the virtuous cycle of investment in securing new growth engines based on the successful sale of existing portfolios to secure investment funds," Seoul Economic Daily quoted Yoo Gyeong Sang, the head of SK Holdings' Digital Investment Center, as saying in a statement. As mentioned, SK Holdings is planning to invest more in business that can be the company’s new growth drivers, especially in the mobility sector which can include electrification and autonomous driving. The holdings group will use the proceeds from the sale of Socar and Turo shares to expand its mobility unit in Southeast Asia, with Soka Malaysia as the center, as this is where SK has management rights. In any case, Turo is a U.S.-based peer-to-peer vehicle-sharing platform that SK Inc. sold for KRW88.1 billion in March this year. The company earned a 121% return from the sale because it was bought for only KRW39.6 billion in 2017.   Photo by: SK Inc. Media Center Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 