GAYLORD — Two Michigan telecommunications companies, Peninsula Fiber Network LLC and WINN Communications, which has an office in Gaylord, will combine operations. Based in Marquette, Peninsula Fiber (PFN) is a provider of fiber optic-based telecommunications and services throughout Michigan, Wisconsin and parts of Minnesota. WINN Communications operates a fiber optic network in Central Michigan with headquarters in Mount Pleasant. The combined companies will operate a fiber optic network that spans three states covering more than 6,000 miles. "There is little to no overlap in the service areas of our two companies, so this merger strengthens each other’s network and creates greater redundancy for the entire customer base by combining the networks. PFN plans on making Mount Pleasant their regional headquarters for the Lower Peninsula, which means they will be adding staff to help build out and cover the lower part of the state," said Mark Graf, general manger at WINN. The two companies combined currently have 53 employees. "With the combined networks we can cover almost the entire Upper and Lower Peninsula," noted Graf, who added that no employees will be eliminated due to the merger. Graf said the Gaylord office is small and is supported by the Mount Pleasant office with network and technical support offering voice, data, internet and IT services to support such things as access points and security cameras.  Graf said the merged company will keep the office open and expand the operations, potentially adding a field service team based in Gaylord.  "Currently field operations are supported out of WINN’s Mount Pleasant office. Gaylord’s future is a bright spot as we look to potentially expand our network operations center in that location," he said. SubscribeCheck out our latest offers and read the local news that matters to you The merged company will be building on each other’s strengths and expertise as both bring key elements for growth, added Graf. "For example, WINN’s field crews allows PFN to better control customer builds and the turning up of services while PFN helps WINN expand its geographic reach in lower Michigan with their sales team. Voice services are a key strength to WINN, which PFN would like to capitalize upon," he said. The closing of the transaction, which was announced on Tuesday, is anticipated around March 1 pending federal and state regulatory approvals. Financial details were not released. — Contact reporter Paul Welitzkin at pwelitzkin@gaylordheraldtimes.com.