 The Semana Santa tradition in Larantuka is a spiritual means, which also has cultural values, to be developed in a harmonious and peaceful coexistence.   This article has been translated using AI.  See Original . Please note that this article was automatically translated using Microsoft Azure AI, Open AI, and Google Translation AI. We cannot ensure that the entire content is translated accurately. If you spot any errors or inconsistencies, contact us at hotline@kompas.id, and we'll make every effort to address them. Thank you for your understanding. The following article was translated using both Microsoft Azure Open AI and Google Translation AI. The statue of Tuan Ma, which was found 513 years ago, was paraded around the city of Larantuka during the Land Procession on Good Friday night. Two months have passed since I came to Larantuka last April 2023 to make a video documentation of the Semana Santa tradition. Many things make it easy to forget this unique tradition. The Signor Deo song has just been sung by Catholics at the Reinha Rosari Cathedral Church in the town of Larantuka, East Flores, East Nusa Tenggara (NTT). The church's chant resounds through the silence of the night, then continues with the Closing Blessing, Wednesday (5/4/2023). Soon, there was a loud noise outside. You can see hundreds of people—young and old alike—dragging zinc plates along the paved streets. The noise became louder as they struck the metal repeatedly while shouting "Trewa!". This commotion was not a riot, but part of the Lamentation Wednesday devotion to commemorate the arrest of Jesus, one of the activities of Semana Santa, a tradition that has been rooted in the capital of East Flores regency for centuries. This is the umpteenth time I have set foot in Larantuka. The first one could be considered special, because it coincided with the celebration of the 500th anniversary of Semana Santa in 2010. This year, 13 years later, I was assigned by the Balai Media Kebudayaan (BMK) of the Ministry of Education and Culture and Research Technology of the Republic of Indonesia to make a video documentation of the 513th Semana Santa Celebration after a three-year absence due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "The history of Holy Week is closely related to the statue of Tuan Ma, which has become an icon in Larantuka," said Mgr Fransiskus Kopong Kung, whom I met at the headquarters of the Larantuka Diocese in San Domingo, on Tuesday (4/4/2023). Tuan is the local term for God, while Ma is none other than the Blessed Virgin Mary or Mater Dolorosa." The tradition of Rabu Trewa in Larantuka. Residents make a commotion by dragging and beating metal sheets on the streets to commemorate the night of the arrest of Jesus. One night, there was a sound of a woman lamenting on the beach. The locals searched for the direction of the voice, but they didn't find a woman, only a statue. "The presence of the statue of Tuan Ma in Larantuka has been long, around 1510," said the Bishop of Larantuka. "At that time, there was no Christianity or Catholicism." Until one day, the Portuguese arrived in Larantuka to trade spices. Then, the missionary from this Southern European country saw a statue of a woman with a sad face kept as a sacred object in a traditional house for worship (korke). Then it was discovered and realized that it was a statue of the Virgin Mary. Near the site of the now-defunct korke, the Fatima Hill has been built for pilgrims who wish to pray there. Also read: Managing Current Film Sensors "The community believes in reincarnation: from a woman, a mother, transforming into a statue," said the Bishop. "Why should it come to Larantuka, not to other places? Here, we read Larantuka as an important place. Larantuka is beautiful." It is undeniable that the capital of East Flores regency is indeed strategic and beautiful." The influence of Portugal is becoming more prominent. Towards the end of the 1640s, King Larantuka Olla Adobala was baptized and became a Catholic follower, taking the name Diaz Vieira Godinho (DVG). The kingdom's scepter was handed over to (the statue of) Mother Mary. The city and kingdom of Larantuka were officially led by Mother Mary, and the King submitted as her servant. Day by day, the spiritual relationship of the Larantuka community - who have embraced Catholicism - with Mother Mary is growing stronger. The procession of the statue of Tuan Ma around the city of Larantuka, according to Mgr Fransiskus Kopong Kung, cannot be separated from the harmonious fusion of local history, culture, spirituality, and traditions. Pilgrims patiently lined up to enter the chapel of Tuan Ma. In this chapel, the statue of Tuan Ma or Mother Mary that was discovered 513 years ago is placed. This is in line with the explanation from Bernardus Tukan, Director of SimpaSio Institute, whom I met on a different occasion at his residence in Sarotari, Larantuka. "When the statue of Tuan Ma arrived, it entered into the culture and social structure, and was accepted by the local culture," said the writer, who is also known as a cultural observer. The figure of the Virgin Mary has a place in the hearts of the people, according to Bernardus Tukan, because it is in line with the Lamaholot culture—a tribe of origin living in East Flores, NTT—which views women as a source of life. "Women in the Lamaholot culture are said to be kayo puken wai matan," he said. Furthermore, Bernardus Tukan explained, “Kayo puken means a tree that gives birth to new shoots, wai matan is a source of water. So she—a woman—is the source of life, even life itself is in women." I was moved to hear how noble the way the Lamaholot people glorify women is. Not unlike Bernardus Tukan, a Lamaholot cultural expert, Silvester Petara Hulit expressed his perspective: "Tuan Ma is depicted as coming from the sea. In Lamaholot culture, the sea is a symbol of fertility and prosperity." The concept of Tuan Ma turning from a human into a statue is also close to Lamaholot culture. "The view of the Lamaholot people, is called tue' skin balik kamak, transfiguration. The goddess became the rice of her ancestors, transforming herself into heirlooms. Such a tradition already exists, has grown here," he traced. On Good Friday evening, residents light candles and pray for family members and religious leaders buried in the cemetery in the city of Larantuka. In Lamaholot tradition, there is a myth of a goddess named Tanuwujo. She was the youngest child of the king and the only daughter who was willing to sacrifice herself for her people so that they would not starve during a famine. When she died, her body transformed into rice, corn, sorghum, millet, and other crops. Semana Santa cannot be separated from Portuguese culture. The word itself means week and holy. For seven consecutive days, from Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday, Catholic followers participate in the biggest religious celebration in Larantuka, also known as the Holy Week of Easter or Hari Bae. A little hindsight, a few weeks before Bae Day, I first registered online. The residents of East Flores and migrants from outside the city and abroad did the same thing. This data collection is important for the committee to do to limit the number of participants in the 513th Semana Santa activity. Confreria is a group of citizens who wear special clothing, one of their tasks is to clear the way for pilgrims during the land procession and are led by the king of Larantuka. "Conditions [post-pandemic Covid-19] have indeed improved, so now [Semana Santa celebrations] we are reopening. However, I am still keeping an eye on the celebration this time," said Mgr Francis Kopong Kung. In addition to these restrictions, the committee also requires that each participant has received vaccine 3 (booster). Bishop of Larantuka is aware that Catholic followers have been longing and eager to participate in the Semana Santa devotional tradition again after being absent for three years due to the pandemic. "With mutual agreement, in January [2023], I will issue an official letter as Bishop, announcing that it will happen this year!" The decision of the Larantuka Bishop certainly brings joy to all Catholics, including Rosalina Kalumata, who serves as the Semana Santa 2023 committee. "It is a great happiness for us, the Bishop has given us the opportunity to carry out our tradition, the celebration of Semana Santa, openly." Haryanto, a pilgrim from Maumere, who admits that this is his first time participating in Semana Santa, "Yes, I want to know what it's like." What is certain, according to Yohannes Fernandez Ekoli, a resident of Larantuka, "All people welcome, full of enthusiasm, for this [Semana Santa 2023]." The 513th Semana Santa was opened at the beginning of April 2023. Mgr Fransiskus Kopong Kung hopes that this celebration will bring a new spirit that will revive the lives of the community both spiritually and socially. The same hope was conveyed by Bernardus Tukan, "Today's Semana Santa must be different from before 2020." Entering the beginning of Easter Holy Week, the vibes are increasingly being felt. The streets are quiet because access on a number of roads is closed to minimize the flow of motorized vehicles. Apart from that, it is also to make it easier for residents to build tikam turo or wooden fences on both sides of the road shoulder along the Semana Santa procession path. In contrast to other villages in Larantuka which built tikam turo, on Tuesday (4/4/2023), the residents of the village of Lohayong had just erected a wooden fence made of a type of kukung wood and gebang rope from this lontar along Jalan Don Lorenzo up and down, on the following Wednesday (5/4/2023) which coincides with Wednesday Trewa. A child lit a candle on the fence of Tikam Turo to illuminate the path of pilgrims who were circling the city of Larantuka during a land parade. "Starting from Wednesday there were activities: they started installing the turo," said the Bishop of Larantuka Mgr. for the procession route, which will be lit with small candles along the way, to illuminate the procession. That is also part of the customary ordinance.” "That was our tradition from the past, it cannot be contested," said Indigenous Father Mater Dolorosa Lohayong Yosep Gregorius BL de Rozary. "We have been ordered from generation to generation, since [the time] of our ancestors who had this [Mr. Ana] Chaplain: stabbing turo for Lohayong Mater Dolorosa Village, it's always Wednesday, it can't be any other day." After the installation of the stabbing turo, the Lohayong residents then gathered on the beach to eat together. The menu served includes, among others, sayur rumpu rampe, ubu kuko, bose, RW, fish with yellow spices, pickled back, corn titih, and red wine. Yosep Gregorius BL de Rozary said the purpose of this event was to get in touch with each other. Next, in the evening after the Lamentation Hymn at the Cathedral of Reinha Rosari Church (also Chapel), the citizens made noisy sounds by hitting and dragging zinc plates while shouting, "Trewa!" This devotion, which depicts the suffering of Jesus when he was bound, marks the onset of mourning during the Holy Three Days. Devotion is an activity outside of the liturgy or outside of the church's general ritual, but remains a part of the spiritual practices of Catholic faithful. Installing a turo stabbing fence to divide the pilgrim path in the village of Lahayong where chaplain Tuan Ana is located. After the procession route was blessed, the atmosphere in the coastal village returned to normal. "Tomorrow is Maundy Thursday," said Yosep Gregorius BL de Rozary. "As the Indigenous Father and owner of this Chapel [Tuan Ana], I am entitled to open the door around noon. Many pilgrims flock to come and kiss the statue of Tuan Ana." On Thursday morning (6/4) after six o'clock, I walked to the Chapel of Tuan Ma. The distance I traveled was quite far, as the road - which was the procession route - had been sterilized from motor vehicle traffic. Upon arriving at the Chapel, the queue was already long. The Confreria group was seen at the front reciting prayers, followed by the congregation. Unexpectedly, I met Raja Larantuka Don Andre Martinus DVG on the chapel terrace. I greeted him and he welcomed me warmly. With a joyful face, he expressed his gratitude, "We feel grateful for the guidance of God and Mother Mary, this year we carry out [Semana Santa] so that the longings of the people can be fulfilled." Yes, three years without Semana Santa certainly creates longing in the hearts of the faithful. Rafael Fernandez, Chairman of the Semana Tribe, whom I met on the chapel terrace, expressed his emotions. "This time, only He (the statue of Tuan Ma) came out, and we feel happy, but also sad because we missed Him so much," he said with teary eyes. The tradition of Merebo-Merampa or community dining together was held after the installation of the Tikam Turo fence for the ground pilgrimage route. The menu featured local food such as jagung titi (corn), bose (a type of banana), sayur rumpu rampe (wild vegetables), fish, RW fish paste, ubu kuko (a type of tuber), and sopi (traditional alcohol). In Rafael Fernandez's view, the reopening of Semana Santa is a good sign. "We are confident and believe, this year when Tuan Ma statue comes out and continues to come out every year, it is unlikely that it will be delayed again." As noon approached, the chapel was opened, and it was time for the congregation to release their longing through prayer. Almost at the same time, Kapela Tuan Ana (Jesus Christ) located not far from Kapela Tuan Ma (Mother Mary) also opened its doors to the public. After waiting in line for quite some time, one by one the congregation walked on their knees towards the sanctuary to pray and kiss the statue of Tuan Ana. "I am happy to be directly involved in this devotion, in this service," said Gabriel de Santo, a resident of Larantuka who is involved in the committee. "We serve, our task is to serve every activity in the chapel, in the church." Maundy Thursday witnessed the overflow of happiness and emotion that merged into one. However, in a separate occasion, Bernardus Tukan reminded the congregation to take lessons from the three-year absence of Semana Santa. "So that we do not become trapped in routine, we do not get trapped in formality without a purer meaning," said the cultural figure. "Lessons. I see lessons." Pilgrims patiently queue to enter the chapel of Tuan Ma. Inside the chapel, the statue of Tuan Ma or Mother Mary, which was found 513 years ago, is located. The presence of God in our lives, according to Bernardus Tukan, is not because of the many offerings we give or the many rituals we perform. "His presence is indeed the essence," he said. "For three years of silence, it has been an inspiration and motivation for us: what exactly do we want to achieve through this celebration." The day has changed, but the tiredness from yesterday has not yet faded. However, I must prepare my stamina as best as possible for the devotional activities on Good Friday which will take place from morning until evening via both land and sea routes. Especially for the Tuan Meninu sea procession and the Good Friday procession around the city of Larantuka. "On Friday, there is also a sea procession, which is also part of the historical tradition," said Bishop Fransiskus Kopong Kung. The activity referred to by the Larantuka Bishop is the Tuan Meninu Sea Procession from the Chapel to Pante Kuce-Pohon Sirih. The boat carrying the Tuan Meninu statue advances in the front, followed by the boats of the residents." The boat carrying the statue of Tuan Meninu (with brownish color and black flag) leads the sea procession. No other boats are allowed to pass it. "The presence of this land and sea procession, I think, is indeed a tradition brought by the Catholics, from Malacca, from the Portuguese, to here. But in fact, it was accepted and became a tradition because it was based on what already existed here," said Silvester Petara Hurit, a Lamaholot cultural figure, whom I met on another occasion in the city of Larantuka." Furthermore, the Head of Arts and Culture Development Division of the East Flores Tourism and Culture Office explains that the essence of sacrifice in the local Lamaholot ritual is in line with the sacrifice ritual in the Catholic and Christian traditions. "If the community feels distant and far away, they will surely be rejected." Sure enough, the enthusiasm of the people proves this view. They scurried along the shoreline watching the sea procession. They also boarded large and small boats that raced like they were chasing each other, accompanied by prayers and songs sung by the PRR sisters in one of the boats. The atmosphere of the land parade on Good Friday night. Pilgrims go around the city of Larantuka while singing praises and prayers to Mother Mary. Then, upon the arrival of the statue of Tuan Meninu on the mainland, it was taken to the Cathedral of Reinha Rosari. Shortly thereafter, several other processions were carried out on the mainland, one of them being the procession to escort the statues of Tuan Ma and Tuan Ana from the Chapel to the Cathedral of Reinha Rosari, stopping at nine Armidas along the way. "On Good Friday, we commemorate the death of Lord Jesus," said Helena Veronica Diaz, a resident of Larantuka. "After attending the church, we come to visit the graves of our family. We remember their deaths. We believe that they also rose with Jesus on Sunday. We are confident that they always protect us wherever we go." After paying their respects, Helena Veronica Diaz and all the worshippers returned to the Reinha Rosari Cathedral, which is located near the cemetery, to participate in the Lamentation and Good Friday Procession. "This devotional tradition has been accepted, revived, and experienced from year to year," said Bishop Fransiskus Kopong Kung. In the tradition, as stated by Mgr Fransiskus Kopong Kung, there are social cultural and spiritual aspects that are embodied, from costumes to procession procedures which are heritage from the past. Various costumes and ornaments – symbols, thorn crowns, nails, and others – are paraded to commemorate the suffering of Jesus at his arrest. During the Good Friday procession around the city of Larantuka, there are also special groups dressed in Confreria and Lakademu, who carry the statue of Tuan Ma. Lakademu wears special clothing and a hat. Their faces are completely covered, as they are wrapped in white cloth with only a narrow opening. "The Bishop of Larantuka added, 'We do not know who has been assigned to do it. The Lakademu cannot see because their eyes are closed, but they participate in carrying the statue of Tuan Ma. They have been trained so that they do not stumble. Everything is organized in the customs inherited from ancient times like this.' " Lakademu is a group of individuals wearing special clothing. Their faces are completely concealed, and their identities are kept hidden. According to the Bishop of Larantuka, among the rows of parishioners who took part in the procession around the city of Larantuka, there were also the royal family and residents of the palace. “Because, here, the king is the president. President means a leader in that tradition, part of the royal culture, as well as the spiritual heritage and cultural heritage here.” The procession of the faithful continued to snake its way until midnight, until the Old Statue of Ma and Tuan Ana arrived at the Cathedral of Reinha Rosari. The prayers and songs sung throughout the night during the Good Friday procession—from the Cathedral, around the city (the procession route), and back to the Cathedral—seemed to purify the city of Larantuka. This land procession, in the perspective of Silvester Petara Hurit, a Lamaholot cultural expert, is something that has deeply rooted in the community. “Sculptures are carried around the city, that's here (in the Lamaholot tradition) when the rice after being harvested is paraded into the village. Accepted, greeted with a tradition called dokang desert (core seed procession). During the procession, the core of the seed and the entourage are also welcomed in stops, a kind of armida-armida in the Semana Santa procession. While on the road there are also songs. When they got there, they entered the traditional house, all mistakes were purified. Then enter the traditional barn, all night is sung. Telling the sacred story of Sang Tonu Wujo, the Goddess of Rice until morning," he explained. The day has changed, entering Holy Saturday (8/4/2023). In the morning, a procession was held to accompany the statues of Lord Ma and Lord Ana from the Cathedral Church back to the Chapel, followed by other processions, including the procession of accompanying Lord Meninu through the sea route. Then, in the evening, an Easter Vigil celebration was held at the Cathedral Church of Reinha Rosari. The next day, Easter Sunday (9/4) or also called Hallelujah Sunday, liturgical activities were held for the Mass of the Lord's Resurrection at the Cathedral Church, also the chapel, from morning to evening. Apart from that, several devotional activities were also held, one of which was the procession of delivering the Maria Alleluya Statue from the Cathedral Church to Tuan Ma's Chapel. The nun participated in a land procession around the city of Larantuka on Good Friday evening. There are also devotional activities for the Handover of Punto Dama—handing over of mardomu tasks from the old (2023) to the new (2024)—in the Tuan Ana Chapel in the morning, and in the Tuan Ma Chapel, in the evening. Mardomu is none other than the person in charge of preparing, organizing, and carrying out the Semana Santa procession. For those who received the mandate, Raja Larantuka Don Andre Martinus DVG conveyed his message, "In the future, pilgrims will come again. Clearly, we as Nagi people must show our true identity as Nagi people: we must serve with our hearts, and also provide the best for the pilgrims who come." The person referred to as "Orang Nagi" is a local Flores person. With good service, Don Andre Martinus DVG is confident that the pilgrims will have a good impression and that will elevate the name of Larantuka. "That is the duty of the sons and daughters of Maria or Reinha to show their true good nature as hosts of Semana Santa." Apparently, anyone who has ever participated in Semana Santa has the desire to return to Larantuka, just like Ina, a pilgrim from Bandung, West Java. "I personally do have a desire to return to this place, to express my gratitude for my prayers that were answered since the first time I came to this place." The atmosphere at Larantuka city public cemetery during sunset on Good Friday. The residents are visiting the graves of their ancestors, relatives, and religious leaders who are buried there. Mgr Fransiskus Kopong Kung hopes that this tradition is not just a repetitive ritual every year, but also brings values ​​of life, both spiritual and communal values. "Living together harmoniously with everyone, anyone, as citizens of the same homeland, we are one big family." Therefore, Bishop Fransiskus Kopong Kung, as the Bishop of Larantuka, is determined to continue promoting this tradition as an opportunity to build togetherness. Semana Santa is a spiritual means, which also has cultural value, for us to develop in a harmonious and peaceful coexistence. "That's what I often say, I want Larantuka to be an example of coexistence," said the Bishop. "Differences do exist. But, we shouldn't focus on the differences. In fact, those differences are a wealth that we should develop in order to have a good coexistence, and Semana Santa is a space for that." Feri Latief, Photojournalist, Lives in Cibubur