New Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino has restored the company's relationship with Google Cloud, reports say. She's restarted paying its bills after Elon Musk halted payments, per Bloomberg and the WSJ. Google Cloud was just one of the many companies Twitter had allegedly stopped paying. Twitter has restarted paying its Google Cloud bills under new CEO Linda Yaccarino after Elon Musk halted payments, according to reports by Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal. Platformer first reported earlier this month that Twitter had stopped paying its Google Cloud invoices as part of Musk's drastic cost-cutting spree. Twitter had signed a multi-year contract with Google in 2018 to host services on its servers including fighting spam and removing child sexual abuse material, per the report. Sources told Bloomberg that Google had initially struggled to communicate with Musk to discuss the unpaid bills, and had tried to reach him by contacting staff at SpaceX instead. Yaccarino, who became CEO of the company in early June, helped to restore the relationship and held talks with Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian, a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg. They said that Musk was supportive of the changed relationship. The companies are also negotiating a broader partnership that could include Google's advertising spending on Twitter and its use of Twitter's API, the person added. Twitter typically pays between $200 million and $300 million a year for Cloud services from Google, sources told Bloomberg. Google did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment, while Twitter replied with its standard automatic response, which did not address Insider's query. Since Musk bought Twitter in October, he's claimed that the social-media company had been on the path to bankruptcy and has drastically pulled back on spending. He chopped Twitter's workforce in half the week after he took charge, and has been incrementally laying off other staff ever since. Under Musk's control, Twitter has also cut back on free food for staff, auctioned off company merchandise and office supplies like industrial pizza ovens and swivel chairs, and tried to bring in more revenues by introducing charges to access some of the site's services, such as its blue-check verification program. Google Cloud isn't the only company Twitter had owed money to. A series of lawsuits allege that Twitter stopped paying bills to a number of companies under Musk's control. The allegations range from unpaid invoices to marketing companies for branded merchandise to rent for Twitter's offices, which has led to the company being kicked out of its office in Boulder, Colorado. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.