Interactive quizzes are a great way to assess student learning in a fun and engaging way. However, creating quizzes can be time-consuming and tedious, let alone creating interactive ones which involves switching between different platforms and tools. That is why we have compiled a list of the 5 best interactive quiz makers for teachers to help teachers create interactive quizzes effortlessly and easily. These tools are: Let us dive into each of them and see what they have to offer. ClassPoint. ClassPoint is most well-known for interactive presentation and quiz making. Its seamless integration with PowerPoint makes it an excellent choice for educators who are already familiar with PowerPoint and want to enhance their presentations with a layer of interactivity. ClassPoint offers a wide array of interactive elements from interactive quizzes and word cloud, to polls and draggable objects. You can also easy turn your quizzes into games with their timer for PowerPoint, and gamification features including stars, levels, and a leaderboard. The best part? ClassPoint has a built-in AI feature which allows you to generate quizzes instantly like a flash, simply by allowing the AI to scan your slide content. ClassPoint works both online and offline, so you can use it in any setting. What’s so good: ClassPoint has an intuitive interface that is easy to use even if you are not tech-savvy. And ClassPoint’s all-in-one capability is really what makes it stand out among the crowd – imagine accessing versatile quiz question types, annotating your slides and gamifying your classroom experience all in one single platform – PowerPoint. Pricing: ClassPoint has a free/basic plan. You can upgrade to ClassPoint Pro for $96 a year to get unlimited access to all its amazing features, as well as advanced features including ClassPoint AI, advanced gamification, quiz mode with automatic grading, and many more. Kahoot! is a popular quiz maker that allows you to create and play quizzes, surveys, and challenges online easily. You can choose from millions of ready-made kahoot! templates or create your own. You can easily bring your quizzes to a whole new level with its ability to add images, videos, diagrams, and audio to quizzes. Kahoot! integrates seamlessly with teaching platforms like Google Classroom and Microsoft Teams, and works on any device with a web browser. What’s so good: Kahoot! allows teachers to transform their classroom into a game arena effortlessly with its built-in gamification features. Well, a game is not really a game without collaboration and competition, right? I’d say Kahoot! nails the gamification feature! Its collaboration and team mode is one of its most exciting feature yet, allowing educators to promote teamwork and peer learning without breaking sweat! On top of its vast library of quizzes, it also provides valuable insights and reports into student performance, helping teachers identify gaps for intervention and support. Pricing: Kahoot! offers a freemium model, with a free basic version that includes essential features. You can upgrade to Kahoot!+ from $17 per month per user to get access to more question types, advanced settings like self-paced kahoots and advanced reporting. Kahoot! also offers more premium plans with AI assisted features. Quizizz is a gamified quiz maker that lets you create not just interactive quizzes, but also lessons, flashcards, and homework. Quizizz integrates with Google Classroom and offers a vast library of teacher-created quizzes where you can take inspiration from. Quizizz works on any device with a web browser and can be played live or asynchronously. What’s so good: Quizizz specializes in self-paced learning which enables students to learn at their own pace. Teachers can also inject fun into the interactive quizzes with fun avatars and memes using Quizizz, making learning enjoyable in a few clicks. Teachers can also keep track of their student performance using Quizizz’s comprehensive reports and feedback. Pricing: Quizizz is free to use for basic features. They offer premium School and District Plans which allow teachers to unlock additional functionalities like unlimited quiz types, LMS integration, co-teaching, reports and dashboard, and many more. Mentimeter is an interactive presentation tool and quiz maker that lets you create and deliver engaging presentations and have real-time interaction with your audience through interactive quizzes, polls, and word clouds. Mentimeter works on any device with a web browser and can be integrated with Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Hopin, PowerPoint, and more. What’s so good: Mentimeter offer versatile question types and has an intuitive interface. It also integrates smoothly with PowerPoint, Google Slides, and Keynote, catering to different teaching needs. Its live visualization feature which instantly displays poll and quiz results makes it easy for presenters to engage with their audience and foster understanding. Pricing: Mentimeter is free for up to 50 participants per month. You can upgrade to Mentimeter Basic and Pro for $11.99 and $24.99 per month respectively for unlimited participants and additional functionalities like co-editing presentations with your team members. They also offer custom pricing for enterprises. Nearpod is an interactive learning platform that lets you create and deliver engaging lessons with multimedia, interactive quizzes and games. Nearpod’s strength lies in its flexibility to transform existing slides, worksheets, videos, and other resources into interactive experiences. Nearpod integrates seamlessly with Google Classroom and Microsoft Teams, and works on any device with a web browser and can be integrated with various learning management systems (LMS). What’s so good: Nearpod enables teachers to take their teaching to a whole new height by integrating virtual field trips, 3D objects, and videos into their teaching materials. Nearpod also makes a teacher’s job a breeze with its formative assessment feature, putting teachers in the driver’s seat of informed teaching with real-time data and insights. Pricing: Nearpod’s free/silver plan allows up to 40 students per session and provides 100MB of storage. You can upgrade to Nearpod Gold for $10/month to get up to 75 students per session and 1GB of storage. They also offer custom pricing for schools and districts. Interactive quizzes are a powerful way to enhance learning and engagement in any classroom setting. With these 5 best interactive quiz makers for teachers, whether you want to automate your quizzes, gamify them, or integrate with other platforms, there is a tool for you. Try them out and let them transform your teaching experience! If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... The rise of child anxiety Based on recent academic sources, child anxiety appears to... A U.S. judge temporarily halted the introduction of a new sports streaming service, supported... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.