Starting with iOS 17, interactive widgets are now available on the iPhone across the Home Screen, Lock Screen, and the new StandBy mode. Apple gave some examples of what interactive widgets can be used for, including marking a reminder as completed, playing or pausing a song or podcast, and controlling accessories in the Home app, and there will be many more possibilities as third-party apps are updated with support. Introduced with iOS 14, Home Screen widgets offered limited functionality until now, as Apple did not allow developers to include interactive elements, such as scrolling, buttons, or animated transitions. Home Screen widgets were only allowed to present read-only information, and tapping on a widget would simply open the corresponding app. Now, users will be able to interact with widgets directly for some actions. Interactive widgets are also available on the iPad's Home Screen and Lock Screen with iPadOS 17, and on the Mac's desktop with macOS Sonoma. All of the software updates are currently available in beta and will be released to the public later this year. 

We finally have interactive widgets in iOS 17! #WWDC23 pic.twitter.com/oIrlh3JWC7
— Apple Hub (@theapplehub) June 5, 2023
 We finally have interactive widgets in iOS 17! #WWDC23 pic.twitter.com/oIrlh3JWC7
— Apple Hub (@theapplehub) June 5, 2023 Get weekly top MacRumors stories in your inbox. Our comprehensive guide highlighting every major new addition in iOS 17, plus how-tos that walk you through using the new features. Update now for a number of important security fixes. Get the most out your iPhone 15 with our complete guide to all the new features. A deep dive into new features in macOS Sonoma, big and small. Updates to Mail, Photos, Messages, and more, with Apple Intelligence features throughout. iPhone Mirroring, Safari improvements, new Passwords app, and Apple Intelligence features throughout. Apple Intelligence features, Smart Script handwriting refinement, Calculator app, and more. New hand gestures, rearrange apps in Home View, larger Mac Virtual Display, and more. 13 hours ago by Tim Hardwick 4 days ago by Juli Clover 5 days ago by Tim Hardwick 6 days ago by Tim Hardwick 1 week ago by Tim Hardwick   MacRumors attracts a broad audience of both consumers and professionals interested in the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and other Apple platforms.