
												  																			New Media Interactive Development
																		Bachelor of Science Degree
 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 RIT’s new media interactive development degree adapts digital technologies for social software, wearable devices, touch interfaces, virtual/augmented reality, and more. 
                    89%
 
                      Outcomes Rate of RIT Graduates from this degree
                      
 
$75K
                   
                      Median First-Year Salary of RIT Graduates from this degree
                     . In RIT’s new media interactive development major, you’ll learn the programming and computing skills for multiple interfaces, and the interactive design skills needed to create outstanding user interaction. You can focus your studies on a specific area of new media to truly explore your interests and adapt your skills to a range of emerging technologies. New media is an ever-changing form of digital communication that engages, immerses, and often entertains users.
The term new media was first coined in the mid-80s to refer to the impact computing was beginning to have on traditional forms of media, like newspapers, radio, and television. But as digital platforms began to evolve beyond the internet, new media came to encompass all types of information and entertainment accessed by computers, phones, and tablets. New media now encompasses anything that integrates communication, computing, and technology – from social media networks (Facebook, Instagram) and music and television streaming services (Spotify, Hulu, Amazon Prime), to highly interactive digital technologies like wearables (Apple Watch, FitBit), virtual reality, augmented reality, and gaming. In the degree in interactive media, your course work is concentrated on programming and interactive development with in-depth classes on topics such as: You’ll build professional-quality websites, apps for mobile devices and tablets, and create social networking applications that connect people with technology and each other. In a digital environment, you’ll learn to program using current and emerging technologies for interactive web design, touchscreens, wearables, and interactive objects. In addition, coursework in design principles will make the interactive experiences you build look polished and captivating. Two blocks of cooperative education experience give you full-time, paid experience working in industry to help lead you to a career in interactive media. Compelling interactive design requires collaboration with designers. As a new media interactive development student, you’ll benefit from a close partnership with students in RIT’s new media design major. New media courses address interactive media design and emphasize visual communication, 2D and 4D design, animation, and design strategy. Both programs share core courses in programming and design, enabling students in both majors to develop the complementary skill sets needed for success in the industry. Your fourth year concludes with a new media interactive development Capstone I and II, a two-course, two-semester experience in which you’ll work on a project for a corporate client who is seeking to identify and implement a digital solution to a challenge. You’ll gain the teamwork experience needed as you learn to develop, navigate, and leverage the designer-programmer-client relationship. With many courses, both project- and team-based, you’ll build a robust portfolio of interactive projects, positioning you to showcase your skills, capabilities, and knowledge to prospective employers upon graduation. View samples of new media team projects to see what our teams have created. Interested in seeing what students can do in interaction design? View a collection of student work in the IGM Gallery. Today’s careers require advanced degrees grounded in real-world experience. RIT’s Combined Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Degrees enable you to earn both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in as little as five years of study, all while gaining the valuable hands-on experience that comes from co-ops, internships, research, study abroad, and more.  
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 What’s different about an RIT education? It’s the career experience you gain by completing cooperative education and internships with top companies in every single industry. You’ll earn more than a degree. You’ll gain real-world career experience that sets you apart. It’s exposure–early and often–to a variety of professional work environments, career paths, and industries. Co-ops and internships take your knowledge and turn it into know-how. Your computing co-ops will provide hands-on experience that enables you to apply your computing knowledge in professional settings while you make valuable connections between classwork and real-world applications. Students in the new media interactive development degree are required to complete two blocks of cooperative education experience. Interaction designers are in demand. All kinds of companies and organizations seek interaction developers for a range of positions in which an organization needs dynamic and innovative digital experiences and creative technology solutions. A sampling of companies that have hired graduates of RIT’s new media interactive development major includes American Greetings, Bottomline Technologies, Fidelity Investments, Forbes Media, GeekHive, IBM, JPMorgan Chase & Co, LenelS2, M&T Bank, MassMutual, Southwest Airlines, TD Bank, and Wegmans Food Markets. RIT’s Office of Career Services and Cooperative Education hosts Creative Industry Day, which connects students majoring in art, design, film and animation, photography, and select computing majors with companies, organizations, creative agencies, design firms, and more. You'll be able to network with company representatives and interview directly for open co-op and permanent employment positions. Starchitects 
											Maddie Olszewski, Jenna DuBois, Wil Gross, Kevin Valete, Delancey Hobbs, Kenneth Wood, Alec Jones, Abraham Furlan, Felix Warner, Hugo Serinese  ’24									 
							
																								Show us your shine!
																					 MOLD. 
											Natalie Doback, Adelia Martinez, Paula Martel, Chase Glynn, Melanie Boncaro, Josiah Zehr, Ev Apostolico, Max Lama, Jacob Goodwillie, Shencheng Fu									 
							
																								Come and play to your heart's content on an interactive table with some sick awesome visuals, sound, and atmosphere.
																					 Constellation Cove 
											Megan Garcia, J.P Bungart, Tina Chen, Judy Derrick, Jessica Foronda, Nihal Karim, Johan-Marc Miango, Brooke Portz, Jailyn Talavera ’24									 
							
																																	Constellation Cove is a capstone project made by the group Bad Assets, consisting of 7 designers and 3 developers from the Rochester Institute of Technology. This is a digital installation experience...
																					 Bloom 
											Stephanie Dineen, Dennis Olmedo, Will Palmer ’23									 
							
																								New Media Capstone 2023
																					 Far Out 
											Allie Maus, Gia Caruso, and Michael Perez-Gelinas									 
							
																								Share stories, develop connections. 
																					 Current Students: See Curriculum Requirements Please see General Education (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students have the option of taking Introduction to Statistics I (STAT-145) or one of the following math courses: Calculus A (MATH-171),  Calculus (MATH-181), or Calculus I (MATH-181A). ‡ Students satisfy this requirement by taking either a 3 or 4 credit hour lab science course. If a science course consists of separate lecture and laboratory sections, students must take both the lecture and the lab portions to fulfill the requirement.  
						This program is
						STEM designated
						when studying on campus and full time. A strong performance in a college preparatory program is expected. This includes: Transfer course recommendations without associate degree
Courses in computer science, calculus, liberal arts; calculus-based physics, chemistry, or biology Appropriate associate degree programs for transfer
AS degree in computer science, engineering science, or liberal arts 
Learn How to Apply
 
100% of all incoming first-year and transfer students receive aid.
 RIT’s personalized and comprehensive financial aid program includes scholarships, grants, loans, and campus employment programs. When all these are put to work, your actual cost may be much lower than the published estimated cost of attendance.
Learn more about financial aid and scholarships
 
              Christopher
              Egert
             
              Luis
              Bobadilla Sotelo
             
              Tony
              Jefferson
             
				                	August 30				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
				                	September 11				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
				                	October 19				             
Brick City Weekend- Golisano College: ESL Cyber Range Demos

 
			July 30, 2024
		 
						Travel-enhanced game design and development course takes students to Japan
					 The two-week trip was the culmination of the Japanese Game Industry course, where students learned about the world’s third largest video game market. RIT students immersed themselves in the culture, participated in a game jam with Japanese students, and visited a major Japanese game studio. 
			June 12, 2024
		 
						Students blend art, technology in Interactive Music Video Experiences class 
					 Interdisciplinary teams of students applied their ingenuity and technological sensibilities in collaboration with local professional musicians to create interactive experiences. 
			March 21, 2024
		 
						RIT game design and development programs ranked among top 10
					 RIT is one of the top 10 universities for students looking to land their dream job as a game designer, according to new international rankings from The Princeton Review. Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			