Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     An interactive story is an umbrella term that includes different games that feature several specific gameplay mechanics such as a heavy focus on environmental interactions, quick-time events, branching stories, and multiple-choice dialogues. They are generally strongly oriented towards an impactful narrative rather than breathtaking graphics.
      RELATED: Best Adventure Games
                     In this list, you will find a diverse selection of titles that tries to range between different takes of this macro-genre and hence embrace as many settings and themes as possible. Furthermore, this list aims to include the best epitome of each renowned software house that develops interactive stories and emphasizes the distinctiveness, the impact on the gaming audience, and the quality of the writing.
                         Supermassive Games opens the list with their last title based on their proven formula. The ingredients for the perfect interactive horror night party are simple: pick up and mix the cast and setting of several popular slasher movies, add multiple choices that can create branches in the story and can determine if a character will die or not, season it with some quick-time events, and decorate it with a captivating hot-seat mode to play with your friends.
                         Although it might not shine for innovation or narrative depth, The Quarry is a spectacular and movie-like interactive experience.
                         Road 96 is an innovative first-person adventure that delivers a compelling and partly procedural experience. This title features a series of faceless protagonists and a well-sorted cast of second leads whose destinies are beautifully entwined in a Tarantino-style narrative.
      RELATED: Best Hidden Gems On Xbox Game Pass
                     Inspired by neo-noir movies and works of fiction on one hand, and by real urgent issues and modern-day political debates on the other, Road 96 offers a story of sympathy, friendship, and freedom. Despite its bare-bones graphics and technical limitations, this title is a fascinating fresh take on the genre.
      Interior/Night is a game studio that includes veterans of the game industry and former developers of the critically acclaimed Quantic Dream, the French company led and founded by David Cage.
      As Dusk Falls, the studio's debut title is an immersive and original declination of the interactive story genre. It feels like a playable graphic novel with 2D characters that act inside beautifully crafted three-dimensional backgrounds. The storytelling and writing are of a high standard and balance the simple gameplay mechanics made of slightly repetitive quick-time events.
                         In its intense brevity, lasting only about 2 hours, What Remains of Edith Finch manages to pull the players’ heartstrings uniquely, telling the story of a strange family and the bonds between its members.
                         The relationship with death is portrayed tactfully, and you’ll be led, at a slow pace, by the developers’ hand in a house soaked with memories and nostalgia. The soundtrack is the icing on the cake and is complementary to great environmental storytelling. The gameplay is cut to the bone, but the experience is worth the ticket’s price.
      Night in the Woods is a message addressed to nowadays’ young people and brilliantly depicts the reality we live in. The social pressure to which this generation is subjected is presented with great delicacy and elegance, proving a great empathy and knowledge of the topic by the writers.
      RELATED: Best Indie Game Protagonists
                     The storytelling and the narrative, apart from an ending that feels a bit rushed, overshadow a simplistic and slightly repetitive game experience. Nonetheless, those precious themes framed in a nostalgic ambiance and accompanied by exquisite art, make Mae Borowski’s journey an experience worth living.
      Life is Strange is a teen drama adventure that made popular interactive stories among young audiences and moved millions of players. Enriched by great voice-acting performances, the tale of Max and Chloe is compelling and complemented by an inspired artistic sector.
      RELATED: Life Is Strange: True Colors Review – Deeply Moving Tale About Love, Loss and Lies
                     The storytelling is captivating, puts the player ahead of absolutely not trivial choices, and exquisitely portrays teenage life and its problems. For what concern the gameplay, the time-rewind mechanic is engaging and fascinating, and manages to give a sparkle of wonder and magic to the title.
                         One step away from the top three lies Immortality, the umpteenth great game directed and written by Sam Barlow. Immortality is the pinnacle of modern FMV games, and it features a groundbreaking and immersive interaction system that is functional both for the gameplay and the storytelling.
                         The acting performances of Manon Gage and Charlotta Mohlin push the quality of this production to premium TV series levels. Constantly jumping between different narrative layers, through realistic behind-the-scenes and fourth-wall breaking with creepy interactions, Immortality offers an immersive and, at the same time, disturbing experience.
                         Quantic Dream, with its debut on PlayStation 3, delivered one of the most exquisite examples of interactive storytelling leading to the small screen a thrilling drama that involves multiple characters with their own compelling and sorrowful stories which end up entwining together.
      RELATED: Best Thriller Anime Of All Times - Dualshockers Recommendation
                     A great technical and emotional respect showcased through great motion capture, the innovative use of the functionalities of the DualShock 3 controller through interactions and quick-time events, and the immersive narrative that doesn’t compromise on topics, offer you an experience that you can’t forget.
                         The first chapter of the series narrates the adventures of Clementine and Lee and is still the most poignant and well-written title coming from the pens of Telltale Games. More in general is one of the most mature adventures ever created.
                         Based upon the best-selling zombie franchise created by Robert Kirkman, Telltale’s The Walking Dead does justice to the incredible story told in the comics. Set in the same world but telling the tale of another group of survivors, this title managed to bring the entire genre of adventure games to life again after years of stalling and darkness.
      The Stanley Parable is an experience unlike any other. While some stories and themes easily take hold because of their importance or their emotional and sympathetic relevance, The Stanley Parable shines thanks to a different and innovative take on the interactive stories.
                         Boasting a constant breaking of the fourth wall through a brilliant meta-narration, it offers strongly experimental interactions and makes you face choices that are beyond the good or bad canons. It is a stylistic exercise and, at the same time, the most clever and picturesque walking simulator ever created.
      NEXT: Best Choose Your Own Adventure Games
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows. Sorry, we're closed.  Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. Dragon Age: The Veilguard intends to set a new standard for character creation