TL;DR: As of April 30, you can get a year of access to System Mechanic® for your computer for just $14.99. That's 69% off the regular price of $49.95. Remote workers, online students, and other tech lovers all likely know the frustration of a slow computer. You might think you have to upgrade your device to enjoy faster speeds, but there’s another way. System Mechanic® is made to give your computer an internal tune-up to increase its speed. See how it can improve your computer’s performance for only $14.99 (reg. $49) with a one-year subscription. Download System Mechanic® and it will automatically keep your computer in tip-top shape. First, it keeps your computer clutter-free by removing bloatware. This stops unwanted programs from running in the background and consuming RAM. It can also remove over 50 types of hidden junk files to free up space on your hard drive. Then, the software fine-tunes internet, processor, memory, and hard drive settings in real-time to bring you faster performance. Here’s what System Mechanic® may do for you: Boost your speed by creating more available CPU, RAM, and hard drive resources.  Find and fix over 30,000 issues to keep your PC stable. Strengthen internet speed by optimizing hidden Windows internet settings. This may get you faster downloads and improved streaming and gaming experiences. System Mechanic® constantly works behind the scenes to help make sure your computer has the resources to run smoothly and efficiently. You could notice boosts in your productivity and less overall frustration with a faster computer. You may also get more privacy and security with System Mechanic®. The software works to clear sensitive browsing history like your passwords and personal information. It also patches Windows security vulnerabilities that could harm your computer or put your information at risk.  You don’t have to replace your device if you want increased performance.  Tune up your computer with one year of access to System Mechanic® for Windows for only $14.99 (reg. $49). Prices subject to change. 
Topics
Windows
