You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Aug 29, 2023, 10:57pm A master’s degree in computer science (CS) builds on students’ existing computer science abilities, adding leadership skills and advanced knowledge of computer science concepts. Earning a master’s in computer science is a great next step if you’re already working in the field and ready to advance your career beyond creating and implementing technology. This graduate degree prepares you to develop strategic plans to help businesses, organizations and agencies use technology more effectively and efficiently. This article explores admission requirements, potential concentrations, common courses and career options for computer science master’s degrees. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. A master’s degree in computer science teaches advanced database management, applied machine learning, object-oriented programming and design, advanced software testing strategies and other essential computer science subjects that help develop students’ management and interpersonal skills. This degree requires around 30 credits and takes about one to two years to complete. Part-time learners may need longer to graduate, and some programs may take less time—degree timelines vary among schools. Admission requirements vary, but below are some common standards for computer science master’s applicants: You may have the option to choose a concentration for your degree. Concentration offerings vary by program but often include: A software engineering concentration focuses on applying scientific principles to computer software systems. It teaches analysis and software synthesis methods, program analysis algorithms, automated process enactment and test generation. This concentration explores big data, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, statistical models and other advanced data science subjects. It teaches techniques to identify and extract knowledge and valuable information. Students in this concentration review information technology concepts, including data structures, scripting, database design, web design, machine learning, animation, AI, network security, cloud computing and big data analytics. This concentration delves into cyber threats and the risks they pose. Students concentrating in cybersecurity learn how to respond to cybersecurity issues, create data encryption tools, authenticate users, maintain data integrity, reverse-engineer malware, and identify and address computer system vulnerabilities and challenges to prepare them for careers in cybersecurity. An artificial intelligence concentration teaches methods to design and implement intelligent systems that interact with and respond to their environments. Students learn about machine learning methods, system performance, software and hardware integration, secure network creation and problem-solving using experienced-based models. This concentration combines computer science principles with criminal justice and investigative concepts. Learners take criminal justice courses, such as network forensics, cybersecurity essentials, mobile device forensics, digital forensics and intelligence gathering. While specific course offerings vary by program, computer science master’s students can expect to encounter the below courses: An advanced operating systems (OS) course explores the design principles, formal structure and organization, performance analysis and implementation of multiprocessor computer systems. The curriculum covers OS architecture, heterogeneity, full-machine, and CPU, memory and storage virtualization. This course teaches students how to build Android applications using in-class programming, practical approaches and large projects. Lessons cover various software technologies, testing and debugging, programming tools and software engineering principles. In a machine learning course, students explore the key classification and regression techniques, mathematical models, and statistical and algorithmic concepts essential to machine learning. The curriculum overviews classification, pattern recognition, linear regression and decision trees. This course looks at the integration of programming language technologies and the connections related to these integrations. Students learn techniques for run-time actions, memory management, machine code synthesis, code generation, program text analysis and other issues relevant to programming language concepts. This course explores the fundamentals of quantum computing and information theories. Learners review the rules for quantum mechanics, teleportation protocols, quantum algorithms, quantum gates and circuits, quantum key distribution and other subjects related to quantum mechanics. With a master’s in computer science, you can choose from a selection of stable, well-paying careers, including those listed below. The below salary data comes from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Median Annual Salary: $126,900
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree; master’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Computer network architects design and develop data communication networks, including small networks and multi-user cloud infrastructures. They identify security issues, create and present network plans, upgrade hardware and software and research new technological developments. Median Annual Salary: $127,260
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s in software engineering or a related field; master’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Software developers identify the needs of computer software users and draw on that information to develop software and computer applications. These professionals recommend upgrades, ensure software functions properly, make diagrams and models for computer programmers and create software maintenance documentation. Median Annual Salary: $102,240
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree; master’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Computer systems analysts study, test, analyze and recommend design improvements for computer systems and procedures. They ensure that computer systems are functional, efficient and customized for businesses or organizations. They may also write training manuals for staff members and other users. Median Annual Salary: $132,360
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree; master’s in computer engineering or a related field sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Computer hardware engineers develop, test and modify computer systems and various types of computer equipment and components, such as circuit boards, routers, networks and processors. They may also collaborate with software developers to ensure that computer software and hardware operate effectively together. Median Annual Salary: $136,620
Minimum Required Education: Master’s degree; bachelor’s degree sometimes sufficient
Job Overview: Computer and information research scientists use algorithms, data science and machine learning techniques to identify, analyze and solve computing problems. Some computer and information research scientists work in a specific area of computer technology, such as programming or robotics. The best master’s degree for computer science is the one that helps you reach your career goals. Your degree should teach you the skills needed for your prospective career—for example, if you plan to work in cybersecurity, your master’s program should offer a cybersecurity concentration. Yes, you can get a master’s in computer science without a bachelor’s in computer science. Many graduate programs accept applicants with undergraduate degrees in related fields, such as information technology and engineering. Your earning potential is higher if you have a master’s rather than a bachelor’s degree in computer science. According to Payscale, professionals with master’s degrees in computer science earn an average annual salary of around $109,000. In comparison, those with bachelor’s degrees in computer science earn approximately $72,000 per year on average. 

 Sheryl Grey is a freelance writer who specializes in creating content related to education, aging and senior living, and real estate. She is also a copywriter who helps businesses grow through expert website copywriting, branding and content creation. Sheryl holds a Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications from Indiana University South Bend, and she received her teacher certification training through Bethel University’s Transition to Teaching program.