md3d - stock.adobe.com The Scottish government has launched a national digital platform (NDP), designed and delivered by NHS Education for Scotland together with several other health and social care partners. The national digital platform aims to offer patients a digital front door to NHS and social care in Scotland, giving them access to their own health and care data online. The NDP is a standard platform that can be built upon by app developers and NHS organisations as they require. This means that as NHS and social care organisations across the country continue to increase their digital offerings, new services can easily be added to the platform and interact with existing systems and services, and reusable components can be shared. Commenting on the launch, Humza Yousaf, Scottish cabinet secretary for health and social care, said: “Within our health and social care system, services are steadily becoming available on digital platforms for those who wish to use them. It is important that these digital platforms work seamlessly together to ensure that people are able to access the right care, at the right place, at the right time. “I welcome the launch of the national digital platform’s website, which will offer useful information on using digital platforms and how the NDP can bring together multiple services in one place,” he said. As well as giving patients access and control over their own data, the platform also means staff get easier access to data, which can in turn lead to better decision-making around patient care, and that planners and researchers are able to improve the efficiency of care. It also offers app developers a standard approach to digital infrastructure, as well as allowing developers to deploy multi-cloud software quickly and efficiently to meet the needs of health and social care partners. Some NHS services are already using the platform for certain services, including a stroke assessment tool, Covid-19 vaccine management, ophthalmic electronic patient record Open Eyes and the ReSPECT emergency care patient summaries. NHS Education for Scotland CEO Karen Reid said the project should have “massive benefits for the people of Scotland”. “A handful of services are already using the platform, but this is just the start,” she said. “As an open platform just like you’d get on your phone, we’re making it possible for developers everywhere to come up with innovative apps to help us all. “Ultimately, the platform will make it simpler to deliver technology that improves the care and wellbeing of people in Scotland,” said Reid. “And we’re grateful to the massive range of stakeholders who have worked closely with us to make this a reality.” Following the pandemic, Scotland set out an NHS recovery plan, committing £1bn to reform the Scottish NHS, including increasing the uptake of digital systems and services. The Scottish government is also aiming to significantly increase the use of video consultations in health and care settings. It recently extended its plans for the Near Me video consultation platform, funding 55 hubs across Scotland, providing private areas for video consultations for those who either struggle with finding a confidential space to hold the consultation, or don’t have a good internet connection or access to a suitable device. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
