Sarah Burris is a long-time veteran of political campaigns, having worked as a fundraiser and media director across the United States. She transitioned into reporting while working for Rock the Vote, Future Majority and Wiretap Magazine, covering the Millennial Generation's perspective during the presidential elections. As a political writer, Burris has had bylines at CNN, Salon.com, BNR, and AlterNet and serves as a senior digital editor for RawStory.com. Women in Media Cente  Among the key comments revealed by Dominion Voting Systems in their court filing Monday was the revelation that News Corp. chairman Rupert Murdoch and Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott discussed whether or not they should dispel some of the lies about the 2020 election on Jan. 5, 2021.  The documents show that for months, Fox executives debated whether or not to continue the 2020 election lies coming from their hosts, pundits and advisers to Donald Trump that were welcomed on air to spin the Trump loss into a win.  At one point, former Rep. Paul Ryan, as a Fox board member, begged the leadership not to allow the conspiracies to persist. But it all came to a head the day before the Jan. 6 attack on Congress. Scott and Murdoch discussed whether or not they should do something.  IN OTHER NEWS: Fox chief Rupert Murdoch said network aired 2020 election conspiracies for the money: court documents "Rupert understood that Fox could do something about the false claims," the documents say. "Indeed, he believed Fox was, 'uniquely positioned to state the message that the election was not stolen.' On Jan. 5 Rupert and Suzanne Scott discussed whether Sean Hannity, Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham should say some version of 'the election is over,' and Joe Biden won.'" Murdoch hoped such words "would go a long way to stop the Trump myth that the election was stolen," the documents continue. Suzanne Scott told Rupert Murdoch that, "privately they're all there, but we need to be careful about using the shows and pissing off the viewers." So nobody made a statement. The next day was Jan. 6th.  Fox host Tucker Carlson continues to spin 2020 election conspiracies and is pushing a new strategically edited episode of Jan. 6 footage that suggests it was a "false flag."  Murdoch suggested at one point during the questioning that they didn't want to remove people like Mike Lindell spreading lies because they wanted his money.   The president and CEO of the NAACP Derrick Johnson hit former President Donald Trump over the Republican nominee's recent "Black job" remarks during the opening night of the Democratic National Convention.               After former President Donald Trump criticized and insulted Georgia Republican Governor Brian Kemp during his Atlanta MAGA rally earlier this month, several GOP leaders and activists have worried that the ex-president will no longer win the Peach State in November.              Former President Donald Trump is now trying to paint Vice President Kamala Harris as a "communist" in his latest attacks — but even his own supporters aren't taking seriously the threat that communism could take over the United States,  columnist Philip Bump wrote for The Washington Post.       
    Copyright © 2024 Raw Story Media, Inc. PO Box 21050, Washington, D.C. 20009 |
    Masthead
    |
    Privacy Policy
    |
    
      Manage Preferences
    
    |
    Debug Logs
    For corrections contact
    corrections@rawstory.com
    , for support contact
    support@rawstory.com
    .
  