I fondly remember summers in Montana, fishing with my grandparents and watching deer stroll through the yard. My grandparents didn’t have internet at their home in Libby, but times have changed. If they lived there today, they would probably have fiber internet from Ziply. Libby is one of the lucky locales in the Treasure State with fiber access. Most Montanans work with cable, DSL, fixed wireless or satellite internet. Montana does not have a great reputation for fast, reliable and affordable internet. Ookla’s Speedtest data ranks it way down in 50th place among the states (and Washington, D.C.), with only Wyoming behind Montana. However, most city dwellers can still access decent broadband speeds.  Spectrum is CNET's top pick for Montana's best internet service provider. The cable provider delivers gig-level broadband to many of the population centers in Montana. CNET examines customer service, speed, pricing and overall value before recommending the best broadband in your area. Spectrum is joined by other recommendations, including CenturyLink for availability and TDS Telecom as an ISP to watch. Whether you're moving to Montana or looking to upgrade your current broadband situation, this guide will help you navigate your ISP options.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data. People who live in rural homes, ranches and farms need decent internet for work and play. That can be a challenge in some parts of Montana. Satellite internet from Starlink, Viasat or Hughesnet is a fallback, but it tends to be expensive, and speeds may be less than desirable. When it comes to wired internet, your best bet will likely be CenturyLink DSL, which often has a wider coverage area than most other alternatives. Speeds can be extremely variable by location and max out at 100Mbps. Montana is dotted with local ISPs that offer fixed wireless for rural locations, sometimes paired with a smaller fiber footprint. Our chart covers some options available across the state, but there are more than we’ve listed here. Fixed wireless speeds can vary based on location. You’ll need a good line of sight to a tower. Here’s how fixed wireless compares to other types of internet connections. Most fixed wireless ISPs have fairly standard plans with pricing based on speed. The Missoula Vallery Internet Co-op is an exception. It charges based on usage. Montana could use some improvement in rural broadband options. The state is well aware of the issue and is in the process of pouring funding into improving access to more remote communities as well as ranches and farms. It’s hard to cover the broadband options of an entire state and give individual cities the attention they deserve. That’s why we also compile lists of the best internet providers in cities across the US, including those in Montana. We tackle details such as internet connection types, maximum speeds, cheapest providers and more. Check back later if you don’t find the city you’re looking for below. We’re working to add more locations every week.  The FCC National Broadband Map shows all Montana households can access broadband internet, but that doesn’t give a complete picture of the internet scene in the Treasure State. The FCC defines broadband as at least 25Mbps down and 3Mbps up, and it includes satellite internet in its estimate. Satellite internet can be expensive and slow and is not necessarily a good fit for all rural locations. The state government says 5% of Montanans live in underserved areas and 13% live in unserved areas.   FCC data shows less than 20% of Montana households can access fiber internet, and if we’re talking at least gigabit speeds, that number drops to 16%. Not surprisingly, you’re most likely to find fiber in bigger cities, but even then, it’s a bit scattershot. There are some exceptions. Libby, a town of less than 3,000 residents, is covered by Ziply Fiber. If fiber is important to you for remote work or gaming, that narrows your options for places to live in Montana. If you can get by with gig downloads and 35Mbps uploads, Spectrum covers much more ground. Montana's poor showing in Ookla's state speed test rankings indicates the challenges involved with rural broadband in the state. It's also tied to a lack of fiber offerings and ISP competition in the cities. Regarding gig speeds, FCC data shows only 16% of Montana homes are covered.  Ookla highlights Spectrum as Montana's fastest provider, with a median download speed of 216Mbps. The downside of cable is that you're stuck with slower upload speeds. For symmetrical speeds, you need to turn to fiber. Montana includes some coverage from Quantum Fiber, Ziply Fiber, TDS Telecom or local ISPs like Montana Internet and Grizzly Broadband. If you're currently battling pokey internet speeds, there are some things you can try to improve your situation. Check out these four essential steps for speeding up your internet connection. Home internet pricing is variable in Montana. On the low end, you can bundle an eligible T-Mobile phone plan with an internet plan to bring your internet price down to $40 monthly. Most ISPs start at the $50 and above level. That includes CenturyLink's DSL networks and Quantum Fiber's lowest tier, with the fiber plan being a superior deal for 500Mbps service. Availability is a big issue.  You can always try to negotiate back to a better deal. Since Montana is already near the bottom in internet speed for the US, there’s nowhere to go but up. Fortunately, there’s some movement in that direction, particularly regarding fiber availability. TDS Telecom announced in early 2023 that it would bring fiber speeds of up to 8 gigs to Helena, Butte, Missoula and Great Falls. It was already working on fiber in Billings. By the time TDS is done, it will service 150,000 homes and businesses.  A considerable amount of funding is coming to expand broadband to underserved and unserved areas of the state. The federal Broadband Equity Access and Deployment (BEAD) program is delivering $630 million in funding. That’s in addition to a $309 million infrastructure investment announced by Governor Greg Gianforte in late 2022. That money aims to bring reliable broadband to 62,000 homes, small businesses, farms and ranches. 
      Does Montana have good internet?
     While some pockets of Montana have access to gig speeds and even fiber internet, Montana is near the bottom in internet speeds for the nation. State and federal investments should help connect more Montanans to fast and affordable broadband over the next few years. If fast internet is a must, look to the bigger population areas and check your options for the locations you’re considering. Chances are good you’ll at least have access to Spectrum’s gig tier. 
      Is there fiber internet in Montana?
     There is limited fiber available in Montana, but more is coming. Quantum Fiber, Ziply Fiber, TDS Telecom and local ISPs like Montana Internet and Grizzly Broadband have fiber networks in pockets of the state. Big national contenders like AT&T Fiber and Google Fiber have so far passed over Montana.  
      Is Spectrum or CenturyLink better for internet in Montana?
     While Spectrum and CenturyLink have a decent-sized presence in Montana, there isn't much competition between them. Spectrum offers superior download speeds if you're choosing between Spectrum and CenturyLink's older DSL network. If you're lucky enough to be within the small service area for fiber from CenturyLink's sister brand, Quantum Fiber, then give weight to the fiber option, particularly if you need the gigabit-level service and will use the zippy upload speeds. Read CNET's comparison of Spectrum and CenturyLink.