Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate banking products to write unbiased product reviews. The information for the following product(s) has been collected independently by Business Insider: Capital One Venture X Business Card†, Capital One Spark Cash Select for Excellent Credit†, Capital One Spark Miles for Business†, Capital One Spark Cash Plus†, Capital One Spark 1% Classic†, Capital One Spark Miles Select for Business†. The details for these products have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer. The bottom line: Business Insider's personal finance team compared Capital One 360 to the best banks and found it to be an industry leader. It especially stands out for its checking account and credit cards. Strong digital banking platform Competitive savings rates Specific accounts for kids and teens Early direct deposit Between Capital One ATMs and partner ATMs, you have access to over 70,000 ATMs nationwide. The bank doesn't charge a fee if you use an out-of-network ATM, but it doesn't reimburse any out-of-network fees charged by an ATM provider. If you want to speak with an agent on the phone, you can call between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m. ET. The website is easy to navigate, and its mobile app has received 4.8 out of 5 stars in the Apple store and 4.5 out of 5 stars in the Google Play store. Your Capital One bank account is FDIC insured for up to $250,000, or up to $500,000 for a joint account. The bank has over 280 branches across Louisiana, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Virginia, and Washington, DC. It also has dozens of Capital One Cafés, where you can grab Verve Coffee, speak with a money coach, and open a bank account. Capital One 360 is the bank's online operation. You can have a hybrid in-person/online banking experience if you live near a branch or Café, or you can bank completely online with Capital One 360. The Better Business Bureau rates businesses by how they deal with customer issues and handle transparency. Capital One 360 has an A+ rating because it's received a high volume of customer complaints on the BBB website. A good BBB rating signifies a company responds effectively to customer complaints, has honest advertising practices, and is transparent in how it handles business. The company does have a recent controversy, though. Capital One used to have an account called 360 Savings. In 2019, Capital One launched the new 360 Performance Savings Account, which paid a much higher interest rate. Many customers thought their old savings accounts would transition into this new one, but in reality, they had to open a new 360 Performance Savings Account to earn the higher rate. So some customers have been earning a significantly lower savings rate for years. In the lawsuit, the plaintiffs' lawyers allege that Capital One didn't inform 360 Savings customers that these were two distinct accounts, or that 360 Performance Savings paid a higher rate. However, Capital One wants this case dismissed because it claims people had every opportunity to learn these facts on their own. This case is still ongoing. Capital One 360's personal checking and savings accounts don't come with monthly maintenance fees, making it a good option if you're hoping to avoid bank fees. Some of its business checking and savings accounts come with monthly service fees, though; if you don't want to pay extra, check to see if you'll be able to waive the fee. Capital One 360 doesn't charge overdraft fees, making it one of the best banks for avoiding overdrafts. It offers a couple of options for overdrafts: you can either automatically transfer money from your savings account whenever you overdraft or allow fee-free overdrafts when they're approved by Capital One 360. If you don't choose either option, you won't be able to overdraft your account. Capital One 360 has an expansive ATM network, and you'll never be charged a fee if you use an ATM in that network. If you use an out-of-network ATM, you still won't be charged by Capital One 360; however, the ATM you're using might charge a fee. The best banks for avoiding ATM fees will reimburse a certain amount of out-of-network fees each month. Many of Capital One 360's credit cards don't charge an annual fee, but some of them do. If you don't want to pay an annual fee, check the credit card you're interested in beforehand to make sure it doesn't come with one. And no matter what, you'll need to deal with a card's annual percentage rate if you don't pay your balance in full each month. Depending on the card and your credit score, you might pay below the average credit card interest rate, at the average rate, or above the average rate. Capital One 360's mobile banking app lets you access your banking and credit card accounts. It's a well-rated app, with at least a 4.5-star rating on both the Google Play store and the Apple App store. It's also rated highest in mobile app satisfaction, according to the J.D. Power 2024 U.S. Banking Mobile App Satisfaction Study with a score of 678 out of 1,000. You can also access Capital One 360 on its website or over the phone. Unlike many online banks, however, you can also access Capital One 360 in person at one of their physical branches or cafés. This means you'll have more options for how you bank than you would with a standard online bank. Capital One 360 has several customer support options. First, you could go into a local branch or café to speak to customer service in person, if you have a location close to you. If you don't have a location near you or want to speak to customer service virtually, you can call customer service using Capital One 360's phone lines. Capital One 360 doesn't offer 24/7 customer service, but its hours are still very flexible; you can contact Capital One 360 by phone from 8:00 am ET to 11:00 pm ET any day of the week. Capital One 360 services include savings accounts, checking accounts, CDs, credit cards, and loans. It offers both personal banking products and business banking products. The fees you'll need to look out for at Capital One will depend on what product you're interested in. Some of Capital One's credit cards come with an annual fee, and some of its business bank accounts have monthly service fees. You'll also need to watch out for fees charged by out-of-network ATMs, although Capital One 360 will not directly charge out-of-network ATM fees. You can contact Capital One 360 customer service by going to a physical branch or calling customer service. You can also send mail if you want to make payments or deposits. Pros of banking with Capital One 360 include access to a great checking account and strong credit cards, along with being able to bank in-person and online. Cons include interest rates not being quite as high as what you'd find at online banks, although they're still much higher than the national average. Earn 4.25% Annual Percentage Yield (APY) on any balance. FDIC Insured. no monthly service fee 4.25% $0 N/A Capital One is a strong bank overall. You'll earn competitive interest rates on online savings accounts and CDs. Capital One 360 savings account interest rates are pretty high, although they aren't as high as what the top high-yield savings accounts offer. This savings account doesn't require an initial deposit or minimum account balance, and it doesn't charge a monthly service fee. Your child can earn 2.50% Annual Percentage Yield (APY) with a kids savings account, and the rate will jump up to the regular interest rate once they turn 18. This savings account makes it easy to save for various goals. Set a savings goal and your target amount, then schedule recurring transfers from your checking account until you've saved the full amount. No minimums, no fees, no worries. no monthly service fee See website for details $0 Capital One is a strong bank overall. You'll earn competitive interest rates on online savings accounts and CDs. Capital One doesn't charge foreign transaction fees, making it a great option for regular travelers. There are no monthly fees, and you have two solid overdraft services: free savings transfers and no-fee overdrafts. With free savings transfers, you'll link your checking account to a savings account. If you overdraw from your checking account, Capital One will make one transfer to cover your overdraft. No-fee overdraft is a service where Capital One approves check payments, bill payments, or recurring debit payments even if it results in a negative balance for your account. To qualify, you'll need to receive at least $250 in direct deposits during two of the three previous months. The account also has an early direct deposit feature so you can receive paychecks up to two days early. 3.75% to 4.50% $0 Capital One CD rates are pretty competitive, but you still might find the best CD rates with other online banks. The institution's CDs come with term lengths ranging from six months to five years. Capital One does set itself apart by not requiring an initial deposit to open a CD — most banks ask for around $1,000. Some banks offer more types of CDs, such as a no-penalty or jumbo CD. Your only option here is a regular term CD unless you go with another bank with better variety and CD rates. Capital One 360 also offers business checking accounts and business savings accounts for small business owners. Both types come with monthly service fees, although they let you waive them if you meet certain requirements. If you're looking for free business bank accounts, you might want to go with another bank. Earn 5x miles per dollar on hotels, vacation rentals, and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 2x miles on every purchase. $95 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% variable Earn 75,000 bonus miles, plus $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year Good to Excellent If you want an easy, no-fuss travel rewards credit card, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a great fit. For a moderate annual fee, it offers plenty of value, useful benefits, and a substantial welcome bonus. Read Business Insider's Capital One Venture Rewards Card Review. Earn unlimited 10X miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn 5X miles on flights and vacation rentals booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 2X miles on all other purchases. $395 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% variable Earn 75,000 bonus miles Excellent The Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card is one of the best credit cards for frequent travelers, with top-notch benefits and a wide range of built-in protections. It comes with a generous welcome bonus and credits that can help offset the annual fee — which is much lower than similar premium cards. Read Business Insider's Capital One Venture X Rewards Card Review. Earn 5 miles per dollar on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 1.25X miles on every purchase. $0 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months (intro fee of 3% for the first 15 months, then 4% of the amount of each balance transfer at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer you at any other time) 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn 20,000 miles Good to Excellent The VentureOne Rewards Card is a slimmed-down version of the popular Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. It's one of the few no-annual-fee cards on the market that gives you the option to redeem miles for cash back or transfer them to travel partners. Read Business Insider's Capital One VentureOne Rewards Card Review. Help build your credit through responsible use. Be automatically considered for a higher credit line in as little as six months. $0 N/A 29.99% variable N/A Average, Fair and Limited The Capital One Platinum Credit Card is worth considering if you're new to credit or trying to improve your credit score. While it doesn't earn rewards or offer many benefits, it could be a good stepping stone in your credit journey — and you won't pay an annual fee or foreign transaction fees. Read Business Insider's Capital One Platinum Card Review. No annual or hidden fees. Be automatically considered for a higher credit line in as little as 6 months with no additional deposit needed. $0 N/A 29.99% Variable N/A Limited, Bad The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card is a good choice for folks who are new to credit or rebuilding their credit score. Because it's a secured credit card, you'll have to put down a security deposit — but its minimum deposit is lower than that of many similar cards. Read Business Insider's Capital One Platinum Secured Card Review. Earn 10% cash back on purchases made through Uber & Uber Eats, plus complimentary Uber One membership statement credits through 11/14/2024. Earn 8% cash back on Capital One Entertainment purchases. Earn 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel (terms apply). Earn 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®). Earn 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months (3% fee for the first 15 months, then 4% at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer you at any other time) 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn $200 cash back Good to Excellent The Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card offers a good welcome bonus and excellent return rates that can earn you cash back on common expenses like dining, groceries (excluding superstores like Walmart and Target), streaming, and entertainment — plus there's no annual fee to worry about. Read Business Insider's Capital One SavorOne Card Review. Earn 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®). Earn 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel (terms apply). Earn 8% cash back on Capital One Entertainment purchases. Earn 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great pick for students who spend a lot on food and going out, because it earns 3% cash back on dining, groceries (excluding superstores like Walmart and Target), streaming, and entertainment. Read Business Insider's Capital One SavorOne Student Card Review. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on purchases. $0 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months (3% fee for the first 15 months, then 4% at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer you at any other time) 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a one-time $200 cash bonus Good to Excellent If you want to earn cash back with minimal effort and no annual fee, the Quicksilver Cash Rewards Card is a good option. Some cards offer a higher rate of cash back, but there are tradeoffs, such as foregoing a welcome bonus offer or keeping track of bonus categories that earn more rewards. Read Business Insider's Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Card Review. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn 1.5% cash back on every purchase with a refundable $200 minimum deposit. $0 N/A 29.99% Variable N/A Limited, No History The Capital One Quicksilver Secured Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great choice if you're new to credit cards and working on building your credit history and score. It's a rare secured credit card that offers decent rewards, but you'll have to put down a deposit after you're approved to secure your credit line. Read Business Insider's Capital One Quicksilver Secured Cash Rewards Card Review. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a good choice for students who prefer a cash-back credit card but don't want to keep track of multiple bonus categories. Read Business Insider's Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Card Review. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on purchases. $39 N/A 29.99% variable N/A Average, Fair and Limited The Capital One QuicksilverOne Cash Rewards Credit Card could be the right choice for you if you're building your credit history. You could be able to qualify for the card even if you don't have an excellent credit score, and you'll earn at least 1.5% cash back on your purchases. Read Business Insider's Capital One QuicksilverOne Cash Rewards Card Review. Capital One has excellent personal credit cards. Several of Capital One's credit cards made our best credit cards guide. The best Capital One credit cards offer impressive travel rewards and cash back options. Many of them also have noteworthy sign-up bonuses if you meet certain criteria. Earn unlimited 10X miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn 5X miles on flights and vacation rentals booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 2X miles on all other purchases. $395 N/A no APR but a 2.99% monthly late fee if balance is not paid in full Earn 150,000 bonus miles Excellent Read Business Insider's Capital One Venture X Business Card Review. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase with no minimums or expiration date. $0 N/A 18.49% - 24.49% Variable Earn a $750 bonus Excellent The Capital One Spark Cash Select for Excellent Credit is worth considering if you're looking for a no-annual-fee business credit card with a solid welcome bonus offer and straightforward earning. But there are better options out there if you're seeking upscale perks. Read Business Insider's Capital One Spark Cash Select for Business Card Review. Earn unlimited 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals, and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 2X miles on every purchase, with no restrictions or blackout dates. $95, waived the first year N/A 26.24% Variable Earn 50,000 miles Excellent The Capital One Spark Miles for Business is a solid rewards business credit card to consider if you want to earn a flat rate of rewards that are easy to redeem. This card gives you an unlimited 2 miles for each dollar you spend just about everywhere, and you can redeem them to cover any travel purchases you want. Read Business Insider's Capital One Spark Miles for Business Card Review. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 2% cash back on every purchase with no minimums or expiration date. $150 N/A N/A Earn a $2,000 cash bonus plus additional cash bonus for every $500,000 spent during the first year Excellent The Capital One Spark Cash Plus is one of the best small-business cards with a huge welcome bonus offer, and it earns 2% cash back on all purchases with no limits. Because it's a charge card, there's no preset spending limit, so it's ideal for small businesses that need that flexibility. Read Business Insider's Capital One Spark Cash Plus Card Review. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 1% cash back on every purchase for your business with no limits or category restrictions. $0 N/A 30.49% Variable N/A Fair Whether you have a new business or just don't have a ton of credit history, the Capital One Spark 1% Classic could be a good stepping stone. It's possible to get approved for the card with just fair credit, whereas most other business cards that earn rewards require a good or even excellent credit score. Read Business Insider's Capital One Spark 1% Classic Card Review. Earn unlimited 5X miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn unlimited 1.5X miles on every purchase, with no restrictions or blackout dates. $0 N/A 17.99% - 23.99% variable APR Earn 50,000 miles N/A Small-business owners who want to earn credit card rewards for free travel should consider the Capital One Spark Miles Select for Business. It's offering an excellent welcome bonus for a no-annual-fee business credit card, and you can transfer the miles it earns to over a dozen airline and hotel partners. Read Business Insider's Capital One Spark Miles Select Card Review. Capital One 360 also offers strong business credit cards for small business owners. It offers both cash-back business credit cards and travel business credit cards. Ally Bank will be the strongest option if you'd like to open a money market account, because Capital One 360 doesn't have one. For savings accounts, it could be a close toss-up between Ally vs. Capital One 360. Each has a similar structure to their savings accounts. If you're looking to open a checking account, Capital One might be more appealing. It offers more ways to access your account. The bank also has physical locations in some states and a bigger ATM network. Ally Bank Review If you're trying to decide between Chime versus Capital One 360, the latter has the strongest accounts overall. It pays higher interest rates on savings, and its CDs have strong rates. Meanwhile, Chime doesn't offer CDs at all. You'll have to open a checking account with Chime to qualify for a savings account. Its checking account is solid, but it charges a fee for using out-of-network ATMs, and it doesn't have as many overdraft options as Capital One. Chime Review Discover® Money Market Account requires $0 to open a money market account, and Capital One 360 doesn't have a money market account at all. For CDs, it'll be a toss-up between the two institutions. Both banks offer similar rates on most terms so it could ultimately come down to how much you have to open a CD. Discover Bank Review When we rate a bank, we consider ethics, customer support, and the mobile app. When rating a specific bank account, we consider factors like the interest rate, minimum opening deposit, fees, and more. Read more about how Personal Finance Insider rates CDs, checking accounts, and savings accounts. Jump to