With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress. This video highlights the fact that even though Sub-Saharan Africa countries have grown economically over the last 30 years, this has not been enough to translate into rapid per capita income growth. The Africa Human Capital Heads of State Summit came in response to engagements with government focal points on the need to draw attention to the role of human capital in economic growth and elevate the discussion on the importance of investing in people. The Summit fostered technical deliberation and shared the latest knowledge on human capital. At the conclusion, African leaders from 43 countries endorsed the Dar Es Salaam Human Capital Declaration, which constitutes concrete commitments to prioritize investments in people, with specific targets in health, education, and jobs. Here's a Summit recap. Sub-Saharan Africa entered the last decade with significant deficits in human capital—the knowledge, skills, and health that people accumulate over their lives. The region’s average Human Capital Index (HCI) was the lowest among all the world’s regions, with a large proportion of African countries at the bottom of the HCI. Overlapping global challenges of the last three years—including the COVID-19 pandemic, rising inflation, and the war in Ukraine leading to increased fuel, grain, and fertilizer prices—have further restricted the accumulation of human capital and worsened the recovery of the human development losses seen during COVID-19. With impacts generally worse for children in poor households, this has translated into greater inequality. The current education system is at capacity, and the demand will increase with nearly 750 million children expected to be of school age by 2060. The rapid increase in cohorts of children and young people presents a significant fiscal pressure on governments in terms of service delivery needs, early childhood development interventions, and sustained investment in accessible and quality education for all, especially girls. It is time to change the narrative on human capital from being mere expenditures to productive investments that are high GDP contributors. For example, one extra year of education correlates with 10% higher household income, and one extra year on average for a country translates overall to 2.5% higher GDP per capita. Date Details Source Links JULY 25 Africa Human Capital Heads of State Summit MFA Tanzania Youtube (3:11:10) JULY 25 The Science Behind Human Capital: Panel Discussion Panelists:1. Hon. Prof. Adolf Mkenda, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, United Republic of Tanzania 2. Hon. Prof. Njuguna Ndung’u, Cabinet Secretary, National Treasury & Economic Planning, Kenya 3. Donald Kaberuka, Former President of the African Development Bank 4. Cheikh Oumar Seydi, Africa Director – Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 5. Hon. Lariba Zuweira Abudu, Minister of Gender, Children and Social Protection, Ghana CNBC Africa Youtube (45:34) JULY 26 Heads of State opening ceremony MFA Tanzania Youtube (1:27:40) This series of technical briefs was compiled for the first Africa Human Capital Heads of State Summit (July 2023) focusing on the importance of investing in young people as a core driver of productivity and growth as seen in recent literature and country experience. This series synthesizes existing research and data to shed light for useful and relevant policy recommendations. BLOGS Invest in Youth, Transform Africa Investing in human capital to boost CEMAC's growth potential Realizing Human Capital Potential and Protecting Girls in the Democratic Republic of Congo Stop solving only half the problem: Human capital through the eyes of the Gambian youth Could Mozambique be the next role model for improving education quality? The Moment in Africa is Now: Invest in Your People INTERVIEWS Interview With Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, Minister of Finance and Planning, Tanzania | 2023 WBG-IMF Spring Meetings Interview: Human Capital for Economic Growth in Sub-Sahara Africa | 2023 WBG-IMF Spring Meetings STORIES & RESULTS Investing in Youth, Transforming Africa Developing a State-led Social Safety Net System to Boost Human Capital and Build Resilience in Somalia Enhancing Youth Skills Development and Employment Opportunities in the Republic of Congo Ghana: Online Education for Delivering Learning Outcomes during the COVID-19 School Closure Transforming Education Across Eastern and Southern Africa > More Stories WHAT'S NEW
PRESS RELEASE | AUGUST 2, 2023
Dar es Salaam Declaration: African Leaders Make Important Commitments to Investing in Human Capital
DECLARATION | JULY 26, 2023
The Dar es Salaam Declaration on Africa Heads of State Human Capital Summit: Investing in People for Building a High-productivity, Inclusive, Resilient Economy (PDF)
SPEECH | JULY 26, 2023
Opening Remarks by Victoria Kwakwa at the Africa Human Capital Heads of State Summit
PRESS RELEASE | MAY 19, 2023
President Samia Launches Africa Heads of State Human Capital Summit
LEARN MORE
Africa Human Capital Project | Year Three Progress Report
World Bank Human Capital Project
The State of Education in the Sahel
Western and Central Africa Education Strategy from School to Jobs
 
 WHAT'S NEW PRESS RELEASE | AUGUST 2, 2023
Dar es Salaam Declaration: African Leaders Make Important Commitments to Investing in Human Capital DECLARATION | JULY 26, 2023
The Dar es Salaam Declaration on Africa Heads of State Human Capital Summit: Investing in People for Building a High-productivity, Inclusive, Resilient Economy (PDF) SPEECH | JULY 26, 2023
Opening Remarks by Victoria Kwakwa at the Africa Human Capital Heads of State Summit PRESS RELEASE | MAY 19, 2023
President Samia Launches Africa Heads of State Human Capital Summit LEARN MORE Africa Human Capital Project | Year Three Progress Report World Bank Human Capital Project The State of Education in the Sahel Western and Central Africa Education Strategy from School to Jobs   This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here. 