Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Anyone struck by a bad case of wanderlust will benefit from a travel rewards credit card. And if you find yourself taking trips more frequently, you may want to upgrade to a card that offers some luxurious benefits. Capital One has three travel-focused consumer credit cards: the Capital One VentureOne Rewards Credit Card, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card and the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card. The cards offer similar rewards programs and nearly identical card benefits, but they differ in the number of miles you earn per dollar spent and the annual fee. With the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card, which ranks as one of our top credit cards for travel and rewards, you earn 5X miles per dollar on hotel and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel and unlimited 2X miles on every dollar spent, as well as up to a $100 credit for Global Entry or TSA PreCheck® application fee every four years. Below, we break down Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card's rewards, benefits and fees to help you decide if it's the right card for you. 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel 2X miles per dollar on every other purchase Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that's equal to $1,000 in travel $95 N/A for purchases and balance transfers 19.99% - 29.99% variable $0 at the Transfer APR, 4% of the amount of each transferred balance that posts to your account at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer to you None Excellent/Good Terms apply. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card has a strong welcome bonus of 75,000 miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months of account opening, plus receive a one-time $250 Capital One Travel credit in your first cardholder year – that's equal to $1,000 in travel and you can potentially get even more value when transferring miles to one of Capital One's travel partners, which includes airlines like Air Canada Aeroplan and Air France-KLM. The card offers a good amount of travel and purchase-related perks given its low annual fee. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card's benefits include the following: *Benefit available to accounts approved for the World Elite Mastercard product, subject to terms, conditions, and exclusions in the World Elite Mastercard Guide to Benefits. See Account Terms or Application Terms for more details. Terms, conditions and exclusions apply. Capital One also provides a free credit score and report dashboard, CreditWise. It's free to use and anyone can join — you don't need to have a Capital One account. With CreditWise, users can learn more about the key factors that impact their credit scores, get email alerts whenever their credit report changes and monitor their credit information. If you're looking for a simple rewards program, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card has you covered. With this card, you will earn: CNBC Select calculated how many rewards the average American can earn if they optimize the way they use their Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. We worked with the location intelligence firm Esri, who provided us with a sample annual spending budget of $22,126. The budget includes six main categories: groceries ($5,174), gas ($2,218), dining out ($3,675), travel ($2,244), utilities ($4,862) and general purchases ($3,953). Here's how many miles you can earn with your Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card in each category, annually: Based on the annual spending budget from Esri, the average American can earn an estimated $1,193 in rewards the first year of card membership (including the miles earned from the welcome bonus) and an estimated $2,965 in rewards after five years with the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. This assumes that cardholders are redeeming miles for a typical maximum value of 1 cent per mile. Extreme optimizers might be able to achieve more value, and you may earn a higher or lower return depending on your spending habits. Your rewards don't expire as long as your account remains open. Capital One miles can be redeemed in several ways, including: Miles are worth a flat one cent apiece when redeemed as a statement credit for past travel purchases or to book future travel through Capital One Travel. This option is useful for those that want straightforward redemptions. Just keep in mind statement credit redemptions must be made within 90 days from the date your travel purchase posts to your account. Travel purchases include things like flights, hotels, cruises, train tickets, local transit and ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft. A potentially more valuable option is to transfer your miles to one of Capital One's hotel or airline partners. Depending on the redemption, you may be able to get two cents or more in value per mile this way, especially when booking business and first-class award flights. Capital One's 18 transfer partners include: Although the majority of these are international programs, they're still useful for U.S.-based travelers. For example, you can book United Airlines flights through Turkish Airlines and American Airlines flights through British Airways. Capital One cardholders can also redeem miles toward cash back and miles via Amazon.com. The company joins American Express, Chase, Citi and Discover to provide the convenient Shop with Points redemption option to cardholders. Cardholders have the flexibility to use as many or as few rewards as they like on purchases at Amazon.com. The redemption rate is 125 miles are worth $1 on Amazon. Note that this is the least valuable option, so if you want to earn cash back consider a cash-back credit card instead. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card has a $95 annual fee for the first year, putting it right in between the no annual fee Capital One VentureOne Rewards Credit Card and $395-per-year Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card. There's no introductory 0% APR period, and the regular variable APR is 19.99% - 29.99% variable on new purchases and balance transfers. Travelers going overseas can take advantage of no foreign transaction fees, which is a huge plus when venturing abroad. A 3% fee is charged for balances transferred at a promotional APR and none for balances at the regular APR. No fee for amounts transferred at the Transfer APR. Find the best credit card for you by reviewing offers in our credit card marketplace or get personalized offers via CardMatch™. Enjoy beneﬁts such as 5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases, and $50 annual Chase Travel Hotel Credit, plus more. Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. $95 None 21.49% - 28.49% variable on purchases and balance transfers Either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Read our Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card review.   The closest comparison to Capital One Venture Rewards is the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card. For the same $95 annual fee, it offers 5X points on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 5X points on Lyft rides (through March 31st, 2025), 3X points on dining, 3X points on select streaming services and online grocery purchases (excluding Target, Walmart and wholesale clubs), 2X points on all other travel purchases, and 1X points on all other purchases. Sapphire Preferred cardholders also enjoy an anniversary points bonus equal to 10% of their total purchases made the previous year. Overall, the card offers more bonus categories, but the Venture Rewards still offers a better return on everyday purchases. While the Sapphire Preferred doesn't come with any lounge access or TSA PreCheck/Global Entry credits, it still offers an array of valuable perks, including the up to $50 Annual Chase Travel Hotel Credit, a complimentary DashPass membership for a minimum of one year (must activate by Dec. 31st, 2027),  primary rental car insurance and more. Plus, cardholders receive 25% more value when you redeem for airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruises through Chase Travel℠. For example, 60,000 points are worth $750 toward travel. At the end of the day, the best card will depend on your individual preferences and spending habits. Learn more: Chase Sapphire Preferred Card vs. Capital One Venture Card: Which $95 annual fee travel card is better? Earn 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on purchases at restaurants worldwide, on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year. 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent at US supermarkets, on up to $25,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year, 3X Membership Rewards® points on per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or on amextravel.com,  2X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on prepaid hotels and other eligible purchases booked on AmexTravel.com. 1X Membership Rewards® point per dollar spent on all other eligible purchases. Earn 60,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $6,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Plus, receive 20% back in statement credits on eligible purchases made at restaurants worldwide within the first 6 months of Card Membership, up to $100 back. Limited time offer. Offer ends 11/6/24. $325 Not applicable See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our American Express® Gold Card review.   If most of your spending is on dining at restaurants or groceries at U.S. supermarkets, the American Express® Gold Card can be a great asset with its 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on purchases at restaurants worldwide, on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year. Terms apply. The card has a slightly higher annual fee of $325 (see rates and fees) but also comes with more statement credits to make up for it. In addition to the bonus for restaurants and U.S. supermarkets, cardholders earn 3X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or on AmexTravel.com amextravel.com and 1X Membership Rewards® point per dollar spent on all other eligible purchases. Benefits include up to $120 Uber Cash annual credit ($10 per month) for rides in the U.S. and dining via Uber Eats (Enrollment required. You must have downloaded the latest version of the Uber App and your eligible American Express Gold Card must be a method of payment in your Uber account. The Amex Benefit may only be used in the United States.) and up to $120 Dining Credit: Satisfy your cravings, sweet or savory, with the $120 Dining Credit. Earn up to $10 in statement credits monthly when you pay with the American Express® Gold Card at Grubhub, The Cheesecake Factory, Goldbelly, Wine.com, and Five Guys. Enrollment required. Terms Apply. Learn more: American Express Gold Card vs Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card: Which is the best for your needs? Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card holders need to spend approximately $4,750 a year to earn enough rewards to break even on the $95 annual fee. This should be manageable considering the average American spends approximately $22,126 annually, according to consumer spending data from location intelligence firm Esri. But if you have other travel rewards cards that charge an annual fee, you might not want to add another to your wallet. That said, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card's annual fee is effectively offset once every four years if you take advantage of the $100 credit for a Global Entry application. Plus, you'll get to enjoy two airport lounge visits each year. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a competitive rewards card that provides premium benefits for cardholders. If you're looking to earn flat-rate rewards on everyday spending or higher rewards in bonus categories, this card can be a great fit. And when you take advantage of the added plus of Global Entry/TSA PreCheck credit, you can help offset its $95 annual fee. Travelers looking to receive some of the benefits found with luxury travel cards but don't want to pay a large annual fee upfront will find more value in this card, versus the Capital One VentureOne Rewards Credit Card, which is a better choice for consumers who want to avoid an annual fee while taking advantage of special financing. However, if you want more premium perks, such as unlimited airport lounge visits and a $300 Capital One Travel annual credit to use toward purchases made through Capital One Travel, you may want to get the high-end Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card instead. Money matters —  so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every credit card review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of credit card products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best credit cards. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. Catch up on Select's in-depth coverage of personal finance, tech and tools, wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.