You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Jul 10, 2024, 3:47pm Capital One is one of the largest banks by assets in the nation. It aims to attract even more customers and deposits by offering up to $1,000 for opening up a personal savings account. Currently, however, Capital One isn’t currently offering any checking account bonuses. Along with bonus offers, checking and savings accounts from Capital One come with some perks: no monthly fees or account minimums, a large ATM network, access to paychecks up to two days early, and a 50% discount on coffee purchases at the growing network of Capital One Cafés. Capital One offers a relatively competitive and easy-to-earn welcome bonus to new customers opening a 360 Checking account. You’ll have to open a new account using the promo code and deposit a certain amount of money during the initial 15-day funding period. You’ll then need to hold that deposit in your account for 90 days after the funding period. The bonus will be deposited into your account within 60 days of meeting the promotion requirements. Here are the details on Capital One’s limited-time welcome offers for new customers*. Offer details are accurate as of July 10, 2024. You can earn a bonus for opening a new 360 Checking account with Capital One. The 360 Checking account has no fees, minimums or overdraft fees. It also gives you the option to access your paycheck up to two days early with its Early Paycheck feature. Capital One’s promotional welcome bonuses are competitive with the best bank bonuses available. If you’re comfortable banking online, this bank’s bonus offers provide a great way to earn some money while switching your business to a bank that will work well for you.
 But there’s a downside. Capital One’s 360 Performance Savings account bonus offer requires a high deposit amount to qualify. If your balance drops below this threshold during the qualification period, even for a day, you may not receive your bonus. 
 If you decide to open a Capital One savings account and want to earn the bonus, make sure that you can tie up the required amount of cash for a few months. Capital One offers customers a straightforward banking experience with minimal fees and competitive APYs. If you don’t often need to visit a physical branch, banking with Capital One is a good way to make sure you’re not paying a monthly fee for an account.
 Here are some other features that Capital One offers:
 The bonus you earn from opening a Capital One checking or savings account might be considered taxable income. Capital One will report your bonus as interest income on a Form 1099-INT to the IRS, and send the information to your state revenue authority if required. To qualify for the new account bonus, you must not have held or been a secondary account holder of a comparable account with Capital One since Jan. 1, 2020. 
 Customers who have held a 360 Checking account will not qualify for the checking account promotion. Customers who have held a 360 Performance Savings, 360 Savings, 360 Money Market, Savings Now or Confidence Savings account do not qualify for the savings account bonus. The best Capital One credit cards currently have welcome bonuses that are also worth considering. The bank’s cash-back cards offer cash bonuses, while its travel cards offer bonuses in the form of credit card points that can be redeemed for travel expenses. To qualify for the following credit card sign-up bonuses, you’ll have to meet the specified minimum spending requirement within a few months of card opening.
 Here are the best Capital One credit card bonuses currently available. Up to 5% Cash Back Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase, every day. Earn 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars bookedRead More $200 $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) Excellent, Good	(700 - 749) This card is a good value all-rounder, offering an intro APR period, no annual fee and a simple 1.5% unlimited cashback rate on all purchases. Up to 8% Cash Back Earn unlimited 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® andRead More Earn $200 Cash Bonus $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) Excellent, Good	(700 - 749) The Capital One SavorOne card is a perfect cash back credit card for those who spend a lot at restaurants, grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®) and on entertainment. With its 3% cash back rate in those categories, it’s a win for socialites that don’t want to pay for an annual fee. Up to 5% Reward Rate Earn 1.5% cash back on all purchases. Plus, earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked throughRead More Earn $750 $0 18.49%, 21.49% or 24.49% Variable Excellent	(750 - 850) For business owners who value simplicity, this is a great all-rounder with no annual fee. You’ll get unlimited 1.5% cashback rewards on all purchases, plus a welcome bonus. However, what’s missing is an intro APR offer. Businesses of any size will enjoy straightforward minimum cash-back opportunities on this card plus increased earnings on travel when booked directly through Capital One Travel. Up to 5X Reward Rate Earn 5X miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, and earn unlimited 1.25X miles on everyRead More 20,000 Miles $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) Excellent, Good	(700 - 749) This card keeps it simple but has enough to keep things interesting. It’s one of the few no annual fee cards that allows transfers to travel partners. You’ll also earn flat-rate rewards with several easy options for redeeming. It travels well, too: There are no foreign transaction fees and you’ll earn extra points for booking hotels and rental cars through Capital One’s travel portal. A contender for the best no annual fee and starter travel card, the Capital One VentureOne Rewards Credit Card could be a fantastic travel companion for vacation goers and road warriors. The travel value can be immediately appreciated with no foreign transaction fees, while the rewards-earning is higher than basic rewards-earning credit cards at 1.25X miles. Plus, this card earns Capital One Reward Miles, which offers excellent value when transferred to airline and hotel Up to 5X Reward Rate Earn 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals, and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn 5X miles on CapitalRead More Earn 75,000 bonus miles + $250 credit $95 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) Excellent, Good	(700 - 749) Casual travelers who don’t plan to carry a balance will find good value in this card’s rewards rate. The Capital One Venture Rewards card is extremely low maintenance as far as travel reward cards go. It provides consistent value and flexibility when it comes to earning and redeeming points for travel and is an excellent alternative for anyone a bit leery of the high Venture X annual fee (rates & fees). Up to 10X Reward Rate Earn 2 miles per dollar on all eligible purchases, 5 miles per dollar on flights and vacation rentals and 10Read More Earn 75,000 bonus miles $395 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) Excellent	(750 - 850) Capital One’s most premium travel card is packed with extras that put it firmly in competition with other upscale credit cards, but at an annual fee that leaves the others far behind. If you’re looking for lofty perks without a lofty annual fee (rates & fees), the Venture X fits the bill. While other cards with elite benefits run nearly $700 a year, you’ll only pay a little more than half that for the Venture X. And you’ll still get Capital One and Priority Pass airport lounge access for you and your guests, an annual travel credit and solid earnings on everyday purchases. Getting a Capital One savings account bonus could easily put several hundred dollars in your pocket, with minimal effort. If you haven’t considered banking online before, the opportunity to earn a bonus could be a great incentive to give it a try. Just keep in mind that Capital One promotions are always changing and they do have expiration dates. Comparing the best bank account bonuses can help you find the best promotional offer to fit your needs. There are several ways to earn a Capital One bonus, depending on which type of account you’re opening. You can get a Capital One checking bonus when you open a new checking account and set up qualifying direct deposits. A Capital One savings account bonus may be available when you open a new Capital One savings account, make a minimum opening deposit and meet ongoing minimum balance requirements. Capital One promotions are limited to new customers only. If you currently have a Capital One account or you’ve taken advantage of a Capital One bonus offer in the past, you won’t be eligible to receive additional welcome bonuses. Depending on which Capital One promotions you’re attempting to qualify for, it may take five to six months to receive a bonus. Bonuses earned are automatically credited to your Capital One 360 account. You can check for Capital One bonus promotions by visiting the bank’s website. You also can search online for “Capital One checking account bonus” to see what results turn up—or simply keep this page bookmarked so you can easily return to check for updates. You can then compare any available promotions to see which ones you might qualify for and how to earn them. 
*The information for the following card(s) has been collected independently by Forbes Advisor: Spark Cash Select from Capital One. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.
 Aaron is an avid global traveler and miles and points enthusiast. In addition to writing for Forbes.com, Aaron is a full-time professional advisor to Fortune 500 companies at a global consulting firm. Brooke Enloe is a banking editor. She is an editor and writer, passionate about producing enlightening content for readers. Her articles are about recent banking news, specifically bonuses and new products. Brooke has written copy for various websites, including blogs and news releases. Brooke is a graduate of Clemson University with a degree in Communication and a double minor in Brand Communication and Writing in Media Studies.