College Baseball, MLB Draft, Prospects – Baseball America 

		Image credit:	
	(Photo by Bill Mitchell) Eric Brown Jr., SS, Brewers: It’s no stretch to say Brown’s 2023 season was a disappointment. He was viewed as a breakout candidate, but hit just .265/.362/.347 over 63 games with High-A Wisconsin. Brown is looking to make up for lost time after dealing with injuries in the second half of the season. He went 2-for-4 Thursday night and stole his seventh base, raising his batting average to .340. Brown has always possessed strong plate skills and a knack for the barrel, with athleticism and twitch.  Max Muncy, SS, Athletics: The other Max Muncy is a former touted prep talent that has struggled as a professional. His plate skills are below-average, as Muncy struggles with contact and approach. Muncy’s greatest asset is his ability to make hard contact at optimal angles. It’s been more of the same so far for Muncy in AFL play. He went 1-for-3 with a home run, two runs and two RBIs, but is hitting just .209.  CJ Van Eyk, RHP, Blue Jays: Injuries have plagued the last few seasons for Van Eyk. He missed all of 2022 recovering from Tommy John surgery. Van Eyk returned late in 2023 and is looking to make up for lost time. He continued his standout Arizona Fall League on Thursday, going five scoreless innings while allowing one hit, walking none and striking out five. He primarily mixes a 92-94 mph four-seam fastball with a low-80s power curve and a mid-80s gyro slider.  Sterlin Thompson, 3B, Rockies: The former Florida star has continued to hit as a professional. Thompson is hitting .395 with a 1.117 OPS so far in AFL play. He went for 1-for-4 on Thursday and reached base twice. Thompson has one of the more advanced hit tools in the minors and will likely raise his stock with a continued good showing in Arizona.  Jack Brannigan, 3B, Pirates: A former two-way star at Notre Dame, Brannigan is one of the more underappreciated good prospects in the minor leagues. He has a good combination of power, approach and contact with defensive chops at third that are backed by an easy plus throwing arm. On Thursday, Brannigan went 2-for-5 with a home run, his second of the Fall League. Brannigan’s hype has yet to match his ability. He’s a name to follow heading into next season.   Not even a global pandemic could dim the starpower of the 2019 draft class. Five years later, we reflect on one of the greatest drafts of all time. Craig Yoho and Jack Leiter lead the way as two talented minor league pitchers to keep an eye on in this week’s Statcast Standouts. Ben Badler shares 50 scouting reports breaking down the top performing underclassmen at the 2024 Area Code Games. Once the minor league season began, it was easy to see why scouts were so excited about righthander Brody Hopkins during spring training It took 17-year-old Padres shortstop Leodalis De Vries some time to warm up, but as the summer wore on he really began to cook. In this week’s 90th Percentile Podcast, Geoff Pontes & Matt Pajak look into how athleticism and top speed are evaluated in MLB prospects. With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL West organization. Star slugger and No. 3 overall draft pick Charlie Condon joins this week’s Hot Sheet Show to discuss his swing, his path to the bigs & more! With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL Central organization. With the trade deadline now passed, J.J. Cooper and Geoff Pontes lead a deep-dive discussion on the state of each NL East organization. The move to 34 full scholarships from the traditional 11.7 number this offseason will further shake the core of the college game.  Read the newest magazine issue right on your phone Join our social media community 211K 223K 326K 21K 13k 
						Categories					 
						Competition Levels					 
						Subscribe					 
						About					 
				Follow us on:			