It's also waving goodbye to storefronts in April 
Warner Bros. crossover brawler MultiVersus is disabling online services on June 25th until the game’s full launch in early 2024, developer Play First Games have announced. Two seasons deep, the studio say they’re taking MultiVersus offline because it’s been in Open Beta this whole time (I know, shocker), so an extended break will give them time to prepare for their proper launch.
 
MultiVersus, and its premium currency Gleamium, will be removed from digital storefronts on April 4th, although if you’ve installed the fighter before then, you’ll be able to re-download it after that date and after online services sunset in June. Season 2 is also being extended until that June 25th date, letting you grind through the latest battle pass and complete daily missions. 
 
During the lengthy downtime, players will still be able to access offline modes such as the training dojo and play locally with friends, but the team won’t be updating the game until its relaunch. When that relaunch hits in 2024, players will keep all their unlocks - including characters, Gleamiums, and skins - but WB isn’t offering any refunds for in-game purchases. You can check out the FAQ page for more details.
 
It’s a spotty situation since MultiVersus never officially launched into a 1.0 release, but from my limited snooping (and by that I mean a lot of scrolling), the last time the game’s Twitter account advertised the game as being in Open Beta was last August when they say that “Open Beta is just the beginning.”
 
MultiVersus came out swinging when it kind of launched last year, blowing up on Steam and Twitch, even though that momentum has trailed off recently. The game was one of the better Super Smash Bros-likes - the novelty of beating up WB icons like Batman and Lebron James was just too strong. But the free-to-play game has been unusually quiet since the beginning of the year and the community has been somewhat lax about the announcement; they're probably hoping some extra time in the oven gives the game a needed boost.
 
In their announcement blog, the studio say they have a “clearer view of what we need to focus on", including a better “cadence of new characters, maps and modes… along with updated netcode and more matchmaking improvements.” They’ll also be “reworking” the progression system based on fan feedback. 
 
MultiVersus is still available for free on Steam and The Epic Games Store until April 4th. The RPS Treehouse enjoyed it enough, slotting it into our list of the best free games, the best co-op games, and the best multiplayer games on PC - or at least it will be until April.
 
MultiVersus
 
PS4, 
            PS5, 
            Xbox One, 
            Xbox Series X/S, 
            PC
 
        Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming
       
        Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.
       

The 25 best co-op games on PC in 2024                    
 

Almost a year after ending its open beta, MultiVersus will return on May 28th                    
 

The 25 best multiplayer games                    
 

The best free PC games                    
 

MultiVersus’ new battle pass now has even more grind than before                    
 

MultiVersus season 2 begins with a reworked battle pass and Big Head Mode                    
 

MultiVersus teases competitive play as its ranked mode alpha test begins                    
 

DC antihero Black Adam and arcade mode shazam into MultiVersus today                    
 Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.