[Update: Twitter appears to be functioning normally again after an outage that lasted around two hours.] Twitter has gone down for users around the world, according to internet tracking company Downdetector. The microblogging service appeared to start suffering issues at around 5:30 a.m. ET (2:30 a.m. PT) on Wednesday, March 1. The outage seems to be affecting all platforms, and users are currently unable to see new tweets in their feeds or post messages for their followers. It’s not yet clear what has caused the outage. Twitter is yet to acknowledge the issue on its website. When major online services go down, it’s to Twitter that many people usually head to vent their frustration. In this case, they’ll have to go elsewhere. The outage is one of several to have hit Twitter since Elon Musk acquired the company toward the end of last year in a deal worth $44 billion. Since then, the new boss has come under fire for making sweeping job cuts at the San Francisco-based company — job cuts that some fear may have left the service vulnerable to outages like this. The most recent round of job cuts took place in recent days when the company reportedly laid off up to 200 more workers — about 10% of Twitter’s remaining workforce of about 2,000, according to the New York Times. When Musk arrived on the scene last year, the company had 7,500 workers. When the story surfaced, Musk tweeted: “Hope you have a good Sunday. First day of the rest of your life.” It’s not clear if the two events are connected, but some saw it as a jibe aimed at those who had just lost their positions at the company. Elon Musk has said that from April 15, Twitter accounts will have to be subscribed to Twitter Blue to have any chance of their tweets appearing in the For You recommendations feed. Membership of Twitter’s premium tier will also be required to vote in Twitter polls, he said. Musk, who acquired Twitter in October 2022 in a deal worth $44 billion, said the move was “the only realistic way to address advanced AI bot swarms taking over” the For You feed. Offered as an alternative to the Following feed, For You deploys an algorithm to serve up tweets that it thinks you’ll like, often from accounts that you don’t follow. Twitter will soon remove blue verification badges from any accounts that haven’t yet signed up to its premium service, Twitter Blue. “On April 1st, we will begin winding down our legacy verified program and removing legacy verified checkmarks,” the social media company tweeted on Thursday. As of 6:10 p.m. ET, Twitter users appear to be able to tweet like normal once again. The original story is as follows: It's nearly impossible to keep up with every new bug/feature/mishap at Twitter these days, but some are more noteworthy than others. Such is the case with today's bug (?), in which Twitter tells users that they are "over the daily limit for sending tweets." Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.