
 Musk's continued takeover of Twitter has brought about massive amounts of backlash, with the implementation of different controversial rules introduced by none other than himself. This weekend, the business tycoon issued a new regulation that makes it so that Twitter interaction and exposure to the app is limited daily, causing a substantial decrease in its user base whilst increasing its competitors.  Apps like Spill, Bluesky, Mastodon, and Threads, all have done well over the weekend due to Musk's error, and are expected to continually grow as long as Twitter's current decision stands. An unexpected turn of unfortunate events made Twitter a bit chaotic this weekend due to an objectively bad business move by Musk, stating that after a user's daily quota is met, practically every activity on the site will result in a rate limit exceeded error, according to a tweet from CEO Elon Musk on Saturday. Twitter Blue will limit the number of posts that non-registered users may read to 600 per day, all for the sake of thwarting "extreme levels of data scraping". Twitter users took this decision in a bad light, some felt betrayed and some refused to accept it. With this outcome, users were once again seeking solace in some of Twitter's numerous rivals after another Musk-fueled mayhem, which resulted in several days of phenomenal growth. One specific app called 'Spill' seems to have won in terms of numbers gained among the others. Spill, established by former Black workers of Twitter, intended to create a social network for diverse groups from the ground up rather than as an afterthought. Only a few weeks after the app's limited beta debut, Spill reports that an astounding number of over 100,000 new accounts were generated over the weekend. Read Also: Meta Threads, the New Twitter Competitor-Slash-Copycat is Launching this Thursday  The decentralized app 'Spill' attracted well-known people to its platforms, such as Kiki Palmer and Ava DuVernay. Questlove, a member of the Roots band, recently tweeted a link boosting Spill's profile, and even prominent singer/songwriter Lizzo looked for an invite to the app. On the social networking charts of the iOS App Store, Spill is presently placed at the number one spot, and third place overall. All the while 'Bluesky', an app funded by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey, reported a significant increase in users ranging from 184,000 to 238,000. Since Saturday's rate-limit troubles, Post, a publisher-focused alternative to Twitter, reported a spike worth 4 times in daily active users and a rise in new signups worth 10 times. Although the temporary rate-limiting on Twitter has stopped, each mistake made by Musk encourages more people to look at other possibilities. Before Musk purchased Twitter, Mastodon, an Android-based competitor, was a strong challenger. Before Musk acquired Twitter, the open-source site had 2.5 million active monthly users. With its own Twitter clone, reported to be named 'Threads', Meta is predicted to enter the battle. Related Article: TweetDeck's Functionality Crumbles Due to Twitter's Imposed Read Limits  Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  