Atlanta doesn't have the maximum number of internet service providers, but it makes up for a lack of quantity with great quality of service. CNET's top pick for the best internet service provider in Atlanta is AT&T Fiber. Google Fiber and Xfinity make for solid alternatives, too, if AT&T Fiber is not available at your address. If you live in a household that doesn't connect a lot of devices at once, wireless internet is another good alternative. T-Mobile Home Internet, Verizon 5G Home Internet and Yomura Air all offer service throughout the city. To help you compare Atlanta broadband providers, we've also found the city's cheapest plans and fastest speeds. The most affordable plan in the area is Xfinity Connect, costing $20 per month for 150 megabits per second (Mbps). For folks hunting for the fastest speeds possible, AT&T Fiber offers 5,000Mbps over a fiber-optic network for $245 monthly.   Source: CNET analysis of provider data. There aren't a lot of other options for internet in Atlanta aside from the providers highlighted above. These providers might be worth considering: Unless you go with Xfinity, expect starting prices for internet in Atlanta to be at or above $50 per month. While more low-priced internet options would be ideal, the cost of internet in Atlanta is not bad, considering the speeds you get. Google Fiber's entry plan, for example, starts at $70 per month but comes with speeds up to 1,000Mbps. That's a cost per Mbps of 7 cents, which is lower than you'll find with plans from many providers. If you're looking for cheap internet, I'd recommend Xfinity, at least for the first 12 months, before prices increase by $20 or more. For more stable and relatively low internet pricing, consider AT&T Fiber, which offers speeds of up to 300Mbps starting at $35 per month, respectively, with no set price increase after 12 months.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data. The best internet deals and the top promotions in Atlanta depend on what discounts are available during that time. Most deals are short-lived, but we look frequently for the latest offers.  Atlanta internet providers, such as Xfinity, may offer lower introductory pricing or streaming add-ons for a limited time. Many, including AT&T Fiber, Verizon and Google Fiber, run the same standard pricing year-round.  For a more extensive list of promos, check out our guide on the best internet deals. Jose-Fuste RAGA/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images Thanks to Yomura, AT&T and Google Fiber, Atlanta residents have access to some of the fastest max internet speeds nationwide. Google Fiber has offered gig and 2-gig services in the Atlanta area for a while now, and AT&T raised the bar with 2Gbps and 5Gbps plans available in select areas in addition to its single gig service. Neither of those providers can beat Yomura's fiber service, offering 10 gigabits for $999 per month.   Source: CNET analysis of provider data. See all results for internet providers in Georgia. Most internet connection plans can now handle basic productivity and communication tasks. If you're looking for an internet plan that can accommodate videoconferencing, streaming video or gaming, you'll have a better experience with a more robust connection. Here's an overview of the recommended minimum download speeds for various applications, according to the FCC. Note that these are only guidelines and that internet speed, service and performance vary by connection type, provider and address. For more information, refer to our guide on how much internet speed you really need. Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it's impractical to personally test every internet service provider in a given city. What's our approach? For starters, we tap into a proprietary database of pricing, availability and speed information that draws from our own historical ISP data, partner data and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.  It doesn't end there: We go to the FCC's website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of publication.  Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:  While the answers to those questions are often layered and complex, the providers that come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend. When selecting the cheapest internet service, we look for the plans with the lowest monthly fee, although we also factor in things like price increases, equipment fees and contracts. Choosing the fastest internet service is relatively straightforward. We look at advertised upload and download speeds and consider real-world speed data from sources like Ookla and FCC reports. To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page. The best Atlanta internet provider for your home depends on what you're looking for and what's available in your area. I'm partial to the fast, symmetrical speeds and reliable connection of fiber internet service, like what you get with AT&T Fiber. The cheap internet pricing that often comes with cable internet providers like Xfinity is tempting, especially considering the added savings of bundling internet and TV. 
      What is the best internet service provider in Atlanta?
     AT&T Fiber is the best internet service provider in Atlanta, offering fast, symmetrical upload and download speeds, unlimited data and straightforward pricing. 
      Is fiber internet available in Atlanta?
     Yes. Fiber internet is available to roughly 55% of households in the Atlanta area. AT&T is the largest fiber provider, serving over half of Atlanta homes. Google Fiber is the second largest fiber provider in the area but is available to only around 15% of households.  
      What is the cheapest internet provider in Atlanta?
     Xfinity is the cheapest internet provider in Atlanta, offering plans that start at just $20 per month for 150Mbps speeds. 
      Which internet provider in Atlanta offers the fastest plan?
     AT&T Fiber offers the fastest internet plan in Atlanta, with upload and download speeds up to 5,000Mbps.  
      Is Xfinity or AT&T internet better?
     The better provider will come down to which type of AT&T internet service you can get at your home. If AT&T Fiber is available, the speeds, reliability and overall value will likely be better with AT&T versus Xfinity. If your address is eligible only for AT&T's DSL-based service, Xfinity will be the better choice for faster speed options and greater value. Check out our AT&T versus Xfinity comparison for more. 
      Is Cox available in Atlanta?
     Although Cox Communications is headquartered in Atlanta, Cox's home internet service is unavailable to Atlanta residents. There's no significant Cox coverage in Georgia outside of the Macon area. Xfinity is the primary cable internet provider in the Atlanta area.