   Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
      A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. A few clouds. Low around 65F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. A few clouds. Low around 65F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 11:36 pm  Tyson Foods announced the company and individual plants received 80 awards from the North American Meat Institute (NAMI). The company received the Community Wellness Award, for its leadership in fighting hunger and food insecurity through protein donations to regional food banks and community pantry partners across the nation. In fiscal year 2022, Tyson Foods donated more than 18 million pounds of protein, the equivalent of 72 million servings of protein, to food banks, pantries and hunger relief organizations in Tyson Foods plant communities and across the nation. “NAMI commends Tyson Foods and its leadership for continuing to ensure their products contribute to a sustainable and healthy food system,” said NAMI President and CEO Julie Anna Potts in the press release. “Tyson Foods’ dedication to sustainably reducing the protein gap demonstrates why they’re a leader in the industry year after year.” NAMI awarded companies based on 2022 data shared for The Protein PACT, through which NAMI and its members are uniting in an industry led effort to accelerate the animal protein sector’s progress towards sustainable development goals. The Community Wellness award is the top honor in the Health and Wellness category. NAMI also recognized Tyson Foods’ commitment to promoting and implementing a diversity, equity and inclusion strategy to celebrate the unique culture of team members and provide a collective voice in how the company does business. Criteria for the award included companies that placed priority on recruitment, retention, community engagement, values, leadership and accountability. Seventy-eight plants and other facilities received recognition for their environmental management practices. The Monroe facility was among those honored with the Environmental Recognition Award, recognizing a company’s dedication to continuous environmental compliance improvement, as witnessed by the development and implementation of Environmental Management Systems (EMS). “It’s an honor to be recognized for the steps Tyson Foods is taking to continuously monitor and build upon its environmental compliance assurance initiatives,” said Steve Patrick, vice president of environmental operations, Tyson Foods. “We are proud of our team’s efforts to implement plants to operate in an environmentally responsible manner in those communities where we live and work.” Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: