Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. 33 years of experience  30 hands-on product reviewers  10,000 square feet of lab space Performance 
        We tested the VPNs on this list to ensure robust performance in terms of connection and speed. After all, there's no point in using a VPN if your connection continually drops or lags, making it intolerable.
       Simultaneous connections 
        Many VPNs limit how many devices you can connect to a service at the same time. If you have a phone, tablet, laptop, desktop, and possibly even a smart TV you want to connect to a VPN, you'd need a service that allows at least 5 simultaneous connections.
       Security 
        There's no point using a VPN unless their security protocols and encryption levels are up to scratch. We also ensured that the development team behind each recommended VPN cares about making security improvements over time and patching reported bugs.
       Kill switch 
        A kill switch prevents you from having an unprotected connection and is an important feature for a VPN to have, as it protects by preventing a return to a default Wi-Fi connection should your internet connection unexpectedly drop.
       Geoblocks and streaming 
        We know that VPNs can be key to accessing local content and services while you're away from home. We ensured that our top recommendations perform well when it comes to these factors and are unlikely to slow down your connection while you are streaming.
       Platforms 
        What systems and devices can you run the VPN on? Our recommended vendors must provide easy-to-use and intuitive desktop software and mobile apps.
       Countries and servers 
        In how many different countries does the VPN have servers? This can include physical and virtual servers, and whether or not there are enough -- at least 50 or so -- to provide variety.
       Trial length and price 
        Each VPN we recommend has a solid money-back guarantee.
       The best virtual private networks (VPNs) encrypt your data and hide your IP address. This keeps your data secure and prevents others from stealing your passwords or spying on your online activity.   A VPN is particularly important when traveling over the summer or using a public Wi-Fi network, like at a coffee shop or a hotel. VPNs are also great for streaming because they unlock access (in some cases, with dubious legality) to content and sports events unavailable in your location. While VPNs are not a silver bullet for personal security, they can help keep your browsing and data safe. See also: Best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick Our pick for the best VPN overall is NordVPN. Based in Panama and subject to the country's strict data protection laws, NordVPN has always been a top contender in the VPN space. NordVPN now provides the whole package: fast speeds, stable connections, plenty of simultaneous connections, and an expansive server network. It's not the cheapest VPN available (though we do have another pick for best value VPN below), but if you want a solid VPN for the foreseeable future that is great for a variety of purposes and is backed by solid customer support, NordVPN is for you.  We've tested all the best VPNs on the market, rigorously evaluating them based on speed, number of servers, security features, price, and more. The ZDNET team has decades of experience in the VPN arena, and we have tested dozens of VPNs to find the best options available. Read on to find the best VPN for you, depending on your devices and needs.  NordVPN is one of the most widely used consumer VPNs available. For most users, it ticks all the boxes. It's secure, suitable for streaming, and has all the features you'll likely need. We've found it to be one of the fastest VPNs with the most consistent speeds and rapid connectivity. In our recent tests with Netflix, for example, NordVPN came out as the top VPN for streaming content on the service. NordVPN offers many features beyond the basics, including support for P2P sharing and an option for a second layer of encryption through Double VPN, which lets you set up a dedicated IP address to run a VPN that doubles as a server.  Review: NordVPN: Consistent speed and performance NordVPN is compatible with all major platforms. The company also operates Meshnet, which allows you to connect directly to other devices instead of routing your traffic through a VPN server. NordVPN provides a server network comprised of 111 countries and allows you to connect 10 devices simultaneously to its service under one account.  The user interface does have room for improvement. On the MacOS platform, in particular, it is somewhat clunky compared to other top VPN providers. Additionally, the subscription cost is on the pricier end. Still, customers enjoy its consistent and speedy service for home use and travel. You can select between Basic, Plus, and Ultimate. The difference is whether you also want access to a password manager, data breach scanner, cloud storage, or file encryption.  Prices start at $3.99 per month on a Standard two-year plan and increase to $6.99/month on an Ultimate subscription. One-year contracts begin at $4.99/month. With two or one-year subscriptions, you will receive free eSIM data. Also: ExpressVPN vs. Surfshark vs. NordVPN: Which is best? NordVPN features: Simultaneous Connections: 10 | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, Android TV, Chrome, Firefox | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries: 111 | Servers: 6,200+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day | Trustpilot rating: 4.2 ExpressVPN is our top choice for the fastest VPN service. It's one of the most popular VPN providers, offering a wide range of platforms, and it's a well-regarded, trusted service. ExpressVPN has an expansive network with servers in 105 countries. It also delivers a speedy and consistent connection, something customers often say and that I agree with. NordVPN and ExpressVPN are well-matched in speed, but during speed tests, I've found that ExpressVPN often just comes above its closest competitor.  The company doesn't log your browsing history, IP address, or traffic destination. Still, it does collect information about the amount of data transferred, the dates you connected to the VPN (not times), and the location of the VPN server.  Compatible platforms include Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Linux, and Amazon's operating system. The company recently launched ExpressVPN for Apple TV, and the firm's Aircove routers come with the VPN preinstalled and ready to go. You can also manually set up ExpressVPN to work with some gaming consoles (Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch) and TVs that do not support its app, although you may need to install the VPN directly on your router to do so. Review: ExpressVPN: Is it worth the price? While customer service is friendly and polite, they persist in customer retention, so you'll need to set aside some time if you don't want to continue and want to cancel after 30 days. Subscriptions begin at $6.67 per month on a 12-month plan. Alternatively, you can pay $9.99 per month for six months or $12.95 for a single month. If you pick the annual plan, you will be given three months of additional access for free and cloud backup options, courtesy of Backblaze. ExpressVPN features: Simultaneous Connections: Up to eight devices | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, Linux, ChromeOS, Apple TV (see the full list here) | Logging: No browsing logs, some connection logs | Countries: 105 | Trial/Money-back guarantee: 30 days | Trustpilot rating: 4.3 In our Surfshark VPN review and testing, we found no data leaks, precisely what you want to see from a quality VPN. With AES-256-GCM, Perfect Forward Secrecy, and RSA-2048 encryption, Surfshark also prioritizes security. Surfshark is quick to connect with a reasonable server network, and while it's not the fastest option, it's a fair service for its very affordable price point. Customers say that the support team is excellent and quick to respond, and with 100 countries in its server network, you have plenty of locations to choose from. This VPN is also a good choice if you want to stream content at home or abroad. We appreciated its complementary and inexpensive add-on features, such as anti-tracking, a search engine that doesn't log your information, and a scanner that searches data breach lists for your email. With Surfshark's multi-hop option, you can also connect through two VPN servers. Furthermore, Surfshark operates a live warrant canary. The cheapest option, a two-year subscription called Surfshark Starter, costs $2.19 per month. If you select the mid-tier plan, Surfshark One, you will pay $2.69 per month. A two-year subscription for the highest tier, Surfshark One+, costs $4.29 per month. Two-year contracts grant you three months of free access. Alternatively, you can sign up for one year and pay $2.99/month or $15.45 for just one month of access. Also: NordVPN vs Surfshark: Which is better? Surfshark features: Simultaneous Connections: Unlimited | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, Linux, iOS, Android, Fire TV, Firefox, Android TV | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries: 100 | Servers: 3,200+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day | Trustpilot rating: 4.3 Private Internet Access is an excellent option if you need a long-term VPN and support for multiple devices, especially since the service offers unlimited simultaneous connections. PIA offers excellent security, too, being open-source. Much of the VPN's code can be examined and audited publicly, promoting transparency (a feature you always want when trusting your security to a third-party vendor). There is also a strict no-logs policy. PIA doesn't have the most expansive network available, with 91 countries, but as customers note, the VPN is quick to install and very simple to use.  PIA includes a free email breach monitor. Other features we like are the handy "snooze" button if you need to temporarily turn off the VPN and a tab displaying security elements, including port connections, protocols, and data encryption standards in use. Unfortunately, some upload speeds can be low in faraway servers. You can also opt for a dedicated IP address or an antivirus scanner as a part of your package. Review: Private Internet Access Private Internet Access offers a range of plans, including a two-year subscription for $2.19 per month, making it a very affordable VPN. If you want to try out the VPN for a shorter time period, you can sign up for $7.50 per month for six months, or you can spend $11.99 for one month of access. The best deal is the two-year subscription, as you are also given two months of free access.  Private Internet Access VPN features: Simultaneous Connections: Unlimited | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, smart TVs, gaming consoles | Logging: No-logs policy | Countries: 91, 140 locations | Trial/MBG: 30 days | Trustpilot rating: 4.3 Proton is a Swiss company created by engineers and scientists focused on creating encrypted email and VPN communications to protect the communication of activists and journalists. In terms of product, Proton VPN has a belt-and-suspenders approach to security, layering robust protocols on top of perfect forward secrecy on top of strong encryption. Not only does Proton VPN have a kill switch, but it also has an always-on VPN, which attempts to restore VPN service if it's dropped mid-communication. All apps are open-source, and the company reports that they are independently audited. Review: Proton VPN The company offers a free VPN service supported by paid users. It allows one machine to connect at medium speed and without bandwidth limits, and provides access to servers across five countries. We don't typically recommend using free VPNs, but if you just want a service for casual browsing, you should consider this one, as it will not sell your information. Customers like Proton VPN's attitude to security and privacy. Although Trustpilot ratings are low, the feedback primarily relates to the firm's free plan limitations and customer support system. The best deal is $4.49 per month on a one- or two-year plan. One month of access costs $9.99 and there is a 30-day money-back guarantee. Proton VPN features: Simultaneous Connections: Up to 10, depending on the plan | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, routers, Android TV | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries: 100 | Servers: 5,900+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day or the free plan | Trustpilot rating: 2.2 The best VPN is NordVPN, thanks to its fast speeds, wide platform availability, great performance, reliability, and server locations. That said, there are many VPN options on the market that are worth your time -- and, potentially, your dollar, should you choose to subscribe to them. When you are considering which VPN to choose, keep in mind that the longer subscription you choose, the cheaper the VPN will be. Best VPN service Price Kill switch Countries Simultaneous connections DNS leak detected? NordVPN $3.99 per month with a 2-year plan Yes 111 10 X ExpressVPN $6.67 per month with a 1-year plan Yes 105 Eight X Surfshark VPN $2.19 per month with a 2-year plan Yes 100 Unlimited X Private Internet Access $2.19 per month with a 2-year plan Yes 91 Unlimited X Proton VPN $4.49/month on a 1-year, 2-year contract Yes 100 1-10, varies by plan X We ran a series of tests in July 2024 on each VPN's paid service to see how they compared.  The tests were performed with a broadband connection in the UK with an average starting speed, without a VPN, of 59.3 Mbps download and 18.02 Mbps upload. (Yes, they are terrible, but they are the best the UK currently offers where I live.) The following speeds are in Mbps. We also tested for the presence of DNS leaks. Please keep in mind that results may be different for you and vary from country to country, so the below should be considered a snapshot. Your speeds may also be impacted by your ISP provider and broadband subscription. For example, the starting speed is a snail's pace compared to some US offerings.  The below results are not the exact speeds you should expect. You can instead use these results for a general idea of how your speeds could change with a VPN enabled. You should also remember that the further away the VPN server, the more your speed may be impacted. Speeds will typically be quicker when you connect to a local server, compared to selecting Australia, for example (unless you're in Australia!). Choose this top VPN service... If you want... NordVPN The best VPN overall. NordVPN isn't the cheapest VPN available, but it remains one of the most consistently fast and stable connection providers. It's great for streaming and travel, too, with a great user interface on PC and mobile. ExpressVPN A robust, fast server network. ExpressVPN is a service I have used for years, and I find it invaluable on a daily basis. You can expect multi-platform support and relatively minor speed downgrades when you are streaming. However, it isn't cheap. Surfshark VPN The least expensive top VPN. Surfshark is a consistent player in our top VPN lists, and for good reason. It might not always be the fastest, but for the price point, you can't argue against its value for money. Private Internet Access Unlimited simultaneous connections. Private Internet Access is a great choice if you want a set-and-forget, affordable VPN able to support and protect as many devices as you like -- but the interface won't suit everyone. Proton VPN A variety of add-on features and the comfort of open-source security. Proton VPN also offers a free plan and is one of the most privacy-focused VPN services out there. These are the most important factors and pointers to consider when selecting a new VPN service. We tested and analyzed the best VPNs in 2024 using the following criteria to help you make an informed decision: For a more extensive breakdown, check out our comprehensive VPN testing methodology page. VPN is an acronym for virtual private network. These services allow you to browse the internet privately and securely connect to open or public Wi-Fi networks. A VPN allows you to change your virtual location by redirecting the connection through one of its servers worldwide. A VPN encrypts your traffic, hiding you from hackers, internet service providers, and governments. If, however, your online activities are being monitored at the ISP level -- say, by a government -- they may recognize the signature of a VPN in play, even if exactly what you are doing is hidden. VPNs are useful in unblocking geo-restricted content and can be vital tools for accessing information in countries with repressive governments. They are important services for anyone who wants to maintain a high level of safety and privacy online. Because they are anonymous (or at least should be), they can also be used to hide illegal online activities such as pirating content. A fully functional VPN should protect your privacy and mask your location and IP address. If you're unsure if your VPN is working correctly, some tools make checking your VPN's performance easy. You can find out your IP address and location using whatismyipaddress.com. Compare the IP address and location when you're connected with and without a VPN. If they are different, then your VPN is doing its job. It's also possible that your VPN is leaking your data and potentially exposing your online activity. You can run tests on a site like DNS Leak Test to ensure your VPN has no issues with DNS leaks or IP leaks. Plenty of tools allow you to test for leaks, but VPN providers own many, and it may not always be clear who developed the tool, which could be a conflict of interest. You may want to run tests with several different sites and compare the results. If you're traveling or using the internet in a public place like a coffee shop, data encryption is critical, since most public Wi-Fi hotspots are open and unencrypted -- which means anyone on the network can see what you send and may be able to eavesdrop on your activities and steal passwords.  If you're connecting to an existing corporate virtual private network, you may not need an additional service. MacOS comes with native VPN support built right in. Head over to System Settings, the Network tab, and either import the configuration file you were provided or hit the plus button and add a VPN interface. Here's a handy tip sheet from Apple that will walk you through the process. If you're connecting to an established corporate VPN, all you need to do is add a new Windows VPN connection. Click the Start button, type settings, then select Settings, Network & Internet, VPN, and then Add VPN. Make sure you have the connection details provided by your work, and then click on "Add a New VPN Connection." Fill in the form and you're good to go. Here's a tip sheet from Microsoft. Windows also allows you to host a VPN server by creating a new incoming network connection, choosing the users who can connect, and telling Windows that the incoming connection is across the internet. You'll also have to configure your router to allow traffic to your computer.  If you're using a Chromebook, all you need to do is open Settings, Network, Add Connection, and then choose between OpenVPN and L2TP over IPSec. Google has a handy cheat sheet to guide you through the process.  See also: The best VPN extensions for Chrome - expert tested WireGuard is Linux's baked-in VPN capability. Its code is relatively simple and small, making it far easier to maintain, test, and debug. So what do you need to set up WireGuard? Most VPNs we spotlighted support WireGuard right out of the box. You can download it for Linux. You can also download a package for Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, and FreeBSD. It's like most open-source products in that you'll need to do some reading and thinking to make it work.  Apple announced support for third-party VPNs on tvOS in 2023. Since then, many of the top VPN providers have developed native apps for tvOS. If you have an up-to-date system, VPN options with native support include ExpressVPN, NordVPN, and Surfshark. See also: The best Apple TV VPNs of 2024 - expert tested and reviewed We've highlighted paid services in this article, although some offer a free tier or a money-back guarantee during a trial period (check out our picks for the best VPN free trials). In general, we don't recommend entirely free VPN services because they may not be secure.  Operating a good VPN service requires hundreds of servers worldwide and vast networking resources. If you're not paying to support that infrastructure, who is? Probably advertisers or data miners. If you use a free service, your data will probably be sold. You wouldn't want your data to go to some company to sift through -- it completely defeats the purpose of a VPN. Before you choose a VPN service, free or paid, it's essential to know that no single tool can guarantee your privacy. First, anything can be compromised. A VPN protects your data from your computer to the VPN service. It doesn't protect what you put on servers. It doesn't protect your data from the VPN provider's VPN servers to whatever site or cloud-based application you use. Privacy and security require you to be diligent throughout your digital journey, and VPNs, while helpful, are not a miracle cure. If it's your data, and you want it to be secure, yes. The same choices are valid regardless of what kind of device you use to transmit and receive data over the Internet. Also: The best mobile VPNs Yes, in most countries, including the US, the UK, and the majority of Europe. Some countries, however, have made VPN use illegal, or they are severely discouraged and limited to state-approved software.  At the moment, countries including North Korea, Iraq, and Belarus have reportedly banned the use of VPNs entirely. As noted in NordVPN's country guide, others -- like China, Russia, and Egypt -- discourage VPN use and try to stop new adoption by demonizing VPNs as software widely used for criminal activity. Workarounds do exist, but they may come with risks. Some do. Check when you sign up. For non-free plans, none of the providers we recommended limit the amount of data you can use. Some will limit how many devices you can use at once -- although, for paid plans, VPN providers tend to offer more connections than you will need.  As a general rule of thumb, free or trial offerings tend to restrict usage, speed, and/or the number of devices you can connect to the VPN, with access and speed increased for paying customers. Logging is the recording of data about your usage, and it occurs everywhere. Every website, at minimum, records an IP address, time, and data accessed so they can track traffic. All VPN providers have to check credentials against recorded personal data to make sure you paid, but a few let you sign up with Bitcoin, allowing you to hide your identity. When we say a VPN doesn't log data, we mean they don't track what sites you visit and for how long, but they may track how much of their infrastructure you use. Let's say you're surfing along and suddenly your VPN connection fails. Your phone or computer is likely to immediately try to reconnect and do so directly without going through a VPN. All of a sudden, your data is unprotected. A kill switch is a feature in your device's VPN app that detects when a connection fails and immediately shuts down network access. Like with everything, it's not a 100% perfect solution, but these days, we wouldn't recommend using a VPN that doesn't offer a kill switch. When you have multiple devices -- such as a tablet, a laptop, and a smartphone -- and you are using these devices for different tasks, you still want to keep your data and connections secure on each machine. When you have enabled the VPN on more than one device at the same time, this means you are using simultaneous connections. It's always best to have this feature in a VPN to ensure your privacy isn't accidentally compromised through one device or another. Using a VPN can often slow down your connection. That's because your data is encrypted, decrypted, and sent through intermediate servers. Game responsiveness might suffer, for example, or you may notice your streaming service doesn't load as fast as usual. With many high-quality VPNs now available, however, the negative impact is often unnoticeable, unless there is a problem with the VPN server you connect to. To fix this, try out a server in a different location and see if that improves your connection. If you've been shopping for a VPN service, you've undoubtedly come across a bunch of names like SSL, OpenVPN, SSTP, L2TP/IPSec, PPP, PPTP, IKEv2/IPSec, and SOCKS5. These are all communication protocols. They are, essentially, the name of the method by which your communication is encrypted and packaged for tunneling to the VPN provider.  To be honest, while VPN enthusiasts can argue over protocols for hours, it's probably good enough to use the default setup from your provider. If ZDNET's top recommendations do not appeal to you, there are a number of alternative VPN providers you can consider in 2024. See also: CyberGhost VPN review: A solid VPN for beginners