ISE partners with the CCMA, GRUP MEDIAPRO, invidis, Absen and more to showcase technologies and solutions. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 This year, ISE 2023 sees a dedicated shift to embrace content production and distribution as part of the globally important Pro AV and systems integration exhibition. As well as featuring a new content production and distribution summit, a keynote focused on Epic Games’ Unreal Engine platform and over 70 dedicated exhibitors in this field, ISE has created a dedicated show floor experience in Hall 6 to showcase the latest solutions for content production.   “As our industry continues to evolve, so does ISE," commented Mike Blackman, managing director of Integrated Systems Events. "We recognize the exciting innovations impacting our markets and we are delighted to welcome a host of new initiatives showcasing Content Production and Distribution. We are grateful for the support of the organizations creating these show-stopping features and I can’t wait to see them in action.”  [SCN Hall of Fame 2023: Michael Blackman] The new Content Production and Distribution Zone in Hall 6 features an exciting array of varied exhibits from a select group of organizations in content production and distribution, including GRUP MEDIAPRO and the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation (CCMA). With 52 offices across 31 countries and employing more than 8,000 professionals, GRUP MEDIAPRO provides the creativity and technical solutions necessary to design, produce and distribute any audiovisual or multi-channel project in any corner of the globe using state-of-the-art technology. The CCMA is the public entity that manages the audiovisual media of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Televisió de Catalunya channels and the Catalunya Ràdio broadcasting group.  The new technology zone in Hall 6 features:  [Everything You Need for ISE 2023: The AV Network ISE 2023 News Hub]   Integrated Systems Europe, ISE 2023, takes place at the Fira Barcelona Gran Via, Jan. 31-Feb. 32023. Integrated Systems Events is a joint venture between AVIXA and CEDIA, the two leading associations for the global audiovisual industry. A daily selection of features, industry news, and analysis for AV/IT professionals. Sign up below. The AVNetwork staff are storytellers focused on the professional audiovisual and technology industry. Their mission is to keep readers up-to-date on the latest AV/IT industry and product news, emerging trends, and inspiring installations. The State of Networked AV Roundtable - Join Us on Aug. 21 Editorial: AI Can Help Us All Be Lions How Washington D.C.'s The Anthem Hosts Arena-Level Artists in Intimate Space AVNetwork is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 