Comment Uber Eats has confirmed its plans to launch a chatbot function later this year to customers in the U.S., U.K., Australia and Canada. Initially, the so-called AI assistant will help users find restaurant deals and easily reorder favorites on the app. Later, the assistant will help users meal plan, find sales on grocery items and order ingredients from recipes, according to Uber. Uber has been on a mission these last couple of years to launch new products and features that create stickiness. The goal is not just to attract new users, but also to retain existing customers. And while Uber is retaining customers, why not nudge them to spend a bit more on the platform? Enter the chatbot. Adding an AI assistant might just be Uber’s way of jumping on the AI bandwagon, a wagon that is near to toppling over as companies across industries rush to incorporate large language models (LLMs) in the post-ChatGPT craze. More likely, it’s a move to engage customers with a conversational AI that may result in more conversions than Uber’s new, and annoying, in-app ads. Uber’s AI assistant will be powered by Google’s PaLM 2 LLM and informed by the company’s catalog of over 900,000 merchants. Google launched PaLM 2 at its I/O developer conference in May. The LLM will power Bard, Google’s counteroffer to ChatGPT. Using a chat function, customers will be able to ask for specific things — spicy vegetarian Thai dishes, trending Mexican restaurants in NYC or dumplings for under $15 delivered in 30 minutes, for example. The chatbot will reply with stores and dishes that meet the customer’s requirements. In a demo shown to TechCrunch, the chatbot is asked to “show me popular picnic snacks.” It responds with recommendations for picnic snacks, featuring things like Gouda cheese and chocolate chip cookies from a local supermarket. The demo customer responds “Organic options, please.” The chatbot replies, “Certainly! For organic options, consider fresh fruit like apples, berries and grapes.” It then provides more options that suit the demo customer’s desire for healthy snacks. The customer picks an order of trail mix from the local supermarket and adds it to their cart. Uber says the chatbot feature will help customers save time and effort by removing the need to scroll through menus and navigate across stores. Other delivery apps are looking for ways to integrate AI into their platforms. DoorDash in August launched an AI-powered voice ordering technology that will answer restaurants’ calls for orders on their behalf. DoorDash is also working on its own chatbot. Instacart has another similar tool, powered by ChatGPT. The new “Ask Instacart” search tool helps customers save time by offering personalized recommendations. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  MIT this week showcased tiny batteries designed specifically for the purpose of power these systems to execute varied tasks.  Rimac revealed Friday during The Quail, a Motorsports Gathering at Monterey Car Week the Nevera R, an all-electric hypercar that’s meant to push the performance bounds of its predecessor.  While the ethics of AI-generated porn are still under debate, using the technology to create nonconsensual sexual imagery of people is, I think we can all agree, reprehensible. One such…  Almost two weeks ago, TechCrunch reported that African e-commerce giant Jumia was planning to sell 20 million American depositary shares (ADSs) and raise more than $100 million, given its share…  We’re entering the final week of discounted rates for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on select individual ticket types until August 23. Join a dynamic crowd of over…  Powered by WordPress VIP