Landmark Hospitality has debuted its first Italian steakhouse and rooftop bar in Jersey City in conjunction with the Landmark Club, a membership club that allows users VIP access to the company’s portfolio of 16 restaurants, bars, hotels, spas and venues throughout New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Felina Steak and the Stork Club rooftop bar are located at Hudson House on the Jersey City waterfront. The building, which was acquired by Landmark in 2019 and originally housed the Terra e Mare restaurant, offers views of the Manhattan skyline and the Statue of Liberty. The hospitality company invested approximately $5 million in opening the new venues. According to John Williams, head of the Landmark Club, the company decided to offer club membership as a way to offer Landmark’s loyal customer base “exclusive and seamless elevated access to all of our premium venues, access to members only spaces, and new curated and tailored experiences like private concerts, cocktail parties, cigar events, rooftop soirees, workshops, intimate chef tastings, monthly dinner parties, exciting pop-ups and more.” The club offers Different levels of membership: Liberty Membership is priced at $1,500 per year, with an additional initiation fee of $500. This offer is available to individuals under 30, artisans, and new and existing clients. Social Membership costs $2,000 per year, with an additional initiation fee of $750. Members are welcome to bring up to four guests to enjoy the facilities. Memorymaker Membership at the exclusive club is priced at $3,500 per year, with a one-time initiation fee of $1,000. Members will have the privilege of bringing up to six guests to enjoy the facilities. Landmark began its hospitality venture more than 20 years ago with Liberty House in Jersey City, so the city “holds a special place in our hearts,” said Maddy Cretella, director of engagement and marketing. “Jersey City remains an important community to us because of our loyal, local clientele from Liberty House as well as new customers.” Felina Steak is the first Italian steakhouse concept from Landmark. Inspired by Felina in Ridgewood, the new restaurant is described as old-school Italian cuisine meeting modern steakhouse cuisine. It features a selection of dry-aged, meat-forward dishes, authentic pizzas and pastas, and fresh seafood offerings. The rooftop Stork Club is a nod to the original Stork Club in Manhattan (1929-1965). Serving cocktails and a selection of light bites throughout the day and night, the Stork Club, according to Landmark, “serves as a vessel to explore social and business connections, or a pre- or post-dinner hot spot to enjoy the skyline view.” Landmark Hospitality was founded by Frank and Jeanne Cretella. According to Jeanne Cretella, “Elevated guest experiences are paramount to us. We dedicate ourselves to cultivating memorable moments that make our guests feel valued and loved. With the addition of Felina Steak, Stork Club and Landmark Club, we hope to curate spaces for our surrounding neighbors to come together and make long-lasting memories.” To access more business news, visit NJB News Now.  Δ 10 West Lafayette StreetTrenton, New Jersey 08608-2002 Phone:   973-882-5004 Fax:   973-882-4648 10 West Lafayette StreetTrenton, New Jersey 08608-2002 Phone:   609-393-7707 Email:  © 2024 New Jersey Business Magazine |  Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Site By: 