Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters A popular steakhouse has been rated number one on Tripadvisor less than two months after opening. The Rio Brazilian Steakhouse, which opened its doors in Warrington last November, has since become the highest rated eatery in Cheshire. The restaurant, in the former Prezzo premises at the Golden Square Shopping Centre, was opened on November 26. It is the company's fifth venue, joining its outlets in Jesmond (Newcastle), Middlesbrough, Newcastle Quayside and Durham. The Warrington venue has been well-received, and quickly became Tripadvisor's top-rated restaurant in Warrington, reports CheshireLive. READ MORE 'The end of an era': Mancs are 'gutted' at shock closure of much loved bar famous for £3 cocktails A post on the Rio Brazilian Steakhouse page on Facebook said: "After opening less than a month ago we've claimed the top spot as #1 restaurant in Warrington on Tripadvisor! Thank you to everyone who has helped us get there and our amazing staff providing the best service in Warrington." But now the restaurant also currently sits as the top-rated eatery in Cheshire. In the short time since opening, it has received 114 five-star reviews, four four-star ratings and just one two-star review. One Tripadvisor user said of their experience: "This was my first time visiting and both my partner and myself absolutely loved it. Amazing food and service, we will definitely be coming back for sure. Good choice of meats & sides and overall great value for money. Also a good choice of wines to accompany the food!" Another said: "Came here with my Uncle and daughter. Very friendly staff from the minute we stepped into the front door. Food was incredible too. Special mention to Natalie who served us, very friendly and nothing was too much trouble. Will definitely recommend and come back!" Rio is described as an 'authentic Brazilian Churrasco dining experience' in the heart of 'the beautiful town of Warrington'. It is open seven days a week for both lunch and evening service. Read the latest What's On news here READ NEXT The huge hidden taproom set to open behind Oxford Road from the team behind the UK's first craft beer bar January is awful - so these are the gigs we're going to in the first month of 2023 Undiscovered places you need to visit in Greater Manchester in 2023 Woman with serious health issue says she was barred from entering popular city centre bar for having the 'wrong ID' The amazing new restaurants and bars opening in Manchester in 2023 