
A BRAND new hotel opening in Glasgow city centre will create more than 90 jobs. 
 
  Leading Canadian hospitality company Sandman Hotel Group will open its first hotel in the city this spring.
 
  Sandman Signature Glasgow Hotel will open in the Pegasus House building on the corner of West George Street and Holland Street. 
 
  The hotel will be ideally situated for both business and leisure travellers and will boast 179 rooms across ten floors. 
 

 
  Mitch Gaglardi, director of Sandman Hotel Group United Kingdom & Ireland, says the new Glasgow hotel is 'close to his heart' as he lived in the city for a number of years and described it as one of his favourite cities in Europe. 
 
  He said: "We chose to open a hotel in Glasgow because we see a lot of potential in the city as a travel destination.
 
  "In the past year alone, Glasgow has been globally recognised as one of the World's Best cities, as Europe's friendliest - the list goes on.
 
  "Having previously lived here with my family for many years I know first-hand that Glasgow is a vibrant city with a rich cultural heritage and an incredible food scene, it has a lot to offer visitors from around the world."
 

 
  Around 100 new jobs will be created with the opening of the hotel in a range of roles, such as general managers, front desk team, waiting staff, housekeeping and kitchen staff. 
 
  Mitch said: "We are committed to providing our team members with a supportive and nurturing work environment, and we believe that our new hotel will be a great place to work.
 
  "We are excited to be contributing to the local economy and providing new job opportunities in Glasgow, at a time when the city really needs it."
 

 
  The location of the new hotel is described as being a "perfect blend of convenience and comfort" as it is located in the heart of the city near a range of attractions including the OVO Hydro and Kelvingrove Park, as well as all the city centre has to offer and guests will be able to enjoy incredible panoramic views.
 
  There will be nine premium room styles, including suites, family rooms, rooms for large parties and rooms for couples, and all will be equipped with high-quality furnishings and the latest technology. 
 

 
  Guests at the Sandman Signature will benefit from a range of premium amenities including high-speed Wi-Fi, 24-hour room service, and a fitness centre. 
 
  The hotel will also feature a premium steakhouse, Chop Grill & Bar, which will serve the finest cuts of British meat in a sophisticated and stylish setting. 
 
Mitch  (Image: CADS hotel)
 
  Mitch added: "Our team has worked tirelessly to create a really welcoming space and atmosphere that will make our guests feel right at home.
 
  "We'll also offer a range of amenities and services, from our fully equipped fitness centre to our steak house and funky bar.  
 
  "Our rooms are designed with the modern traveller in mind, with super comfortable beds, high-quality linens, and the latest technology.
 
  "We want our guests to have an unforgettable experience, and we believe that our new hotel in Glasgow will deliver just that."
 

 
  You can find out more at www.sandmansignature.co.uk/glasgow
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.