
Aurora Innovation, Inc. AUR today announced its second quarter 2023 results. Aurora's shareholder letter, including its financial results, are available on its investor relations website at ir.aurora.tech.

 
"The second quarter was marked by outstanding progress as we've continued to advance toward our Aurora Driver Ready milestone," said Chris Urmson, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer at Aurora. "Our work enhancing autonomy performance, advancing the Aurora Driver Safety Case and expanding our partner ecosystem will support the growth of our business for years to come. Combined with our recent successful $850 million equity capital raise and the strong support from our investment partners, our path forward and the enormous potential that lies ahead has never been more clear."

 
The company will host a business review conference call today, August 2, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time. The conference call will be webcast on Aurora's investor relations website at ir.aurora.tech and an accompanying presentation has also been posted to the website. A replay of the webcast will be available for 30 days following the call.

 
About Aurora
 
Aurora AUR is delivering the benefits of self-driving technology safely, quickly, and broadly to make transportation safer, increasingly accessible, and more reliable and efficient than ever before. The Aurora Driver is a self-driving system designed to operate multiple vehicle types, from freight-hauling trucks to ride-hailing passenger vehicles, and underpins Aurora Horizon and Aurora Connect, its driver-as-a-service products for trucking and ride-hailing. Aurora is working with industry leaders across the transportation ecosystem, including Continental, Covenant, FedEx, PACCAR, Ryder, Schneider, Toyota, Uber, Uber Freight, U.S. Xpress, Volvo Trucks and Werner. For Aurora's latest news, visit aurora.tech and @aurora_inno on Twitter.

 
Aurora Overview 
Aurora Press Kit
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230802928936/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.