Aurora Driver Beta 5.0 unlocks the critical capability to detect and appropriately respond to emergency vehicles like ambulances, fire engines, and law enforcement vehicles. [Video still: Aurora Innovation] Aurora Innovation—which is operating self-driving trucking pilot routes between Dallas and Houston and between Fort Worth and El Paso—has released Aurora Driver Beta 5.0, the latest version of its integrated hardware and autonomy system. The new system will be implemented in its autonomous trucking fleet in Texas. “We’re already demonstrating the value an autonomous trucking product can bring to our pilot customers as we continue to deliver loads across Texas each day,” Aurora co-founder and CEO Chris Urmson said in a statement. “Launching our latest beta release moves Aurora one step closer to a commercial-ready product and helps to prepare us for the scaled deployment of Aurora Horizon across the country.” While the trucks—based on PACCAR’s Peterbilt 579M—are driven autonomously, operators in the cab are accompanying each truck in the pilot fleet, ready to assist if needed, Aurora said. But down the road, the trucks may one day be rolling without a human inside. “We expect to pull the driver and launch our trucking service, Aurora Horizon, in late 2024,” the company said. Aurora Innovation is transporting FedEx shipments from Dallas to Houston and from Fort Worth to El Paso. [Photo: Business Wire] The company said that with a more performant Aurora Driver, it continues toward commercial launch and increases its weekly hauls of freight for pilot customers including FedEx, Uber Freight, Werner, and Schneider. Earlier this month, Aurora Innovation and Uber Freight expanded their autonomous trucking pilot program with a new weekly self-driving trucking route between Fort Worth and El Paso. The 600-mile “lane” across Texas launched in October, the companies said. The companies are using the new route to autonomously haul goods for Veritiv, a leading Fortune 500 distributor of packaged goods. The packages are going to customers in El Paso and New Mexico, including retailers, schools, and hospitals. Earlier, Aurora announced it was opening autonomous vehicle terminals in Fort Worth and El Paso to bolster its partnership with Omaha-based Werner Enterprises, with autonomously driven loads hauled between the two cities. Aurora says that safe and reliable autonomous driving is essential to launch commercial operations at scale. The company said that Aurora Driver Beta 5.0 unlocks key safety-critical and increasingly complex highway driving capabilities, enabling the Aurora Driver to autonomously operate in more scenarios. These new capabilities include: 
The Aurora Driver is the autonomy system that underpins Aurora Horizon, the company’s subscription-based autonomous trucking service. Aurora’s quarterly beta releases debut Aurora Diver’s new capabilities, which are reflected in the Aurora Horizon roadmap to commercial launch, and bring the system closer to “feature complete,” the company said. Aurora said it expects to reach “feature complete” at the end of the first quarter of 2023, which will indicate that the capabilities required for commercial launch have been implemented in the Aurora Driver and all policy interventions have been removed. In the past year, the company introduced five beta releases, each one bringing Aurora closer to commercial launch. The first beta release introduced foundational driving capabilities such as merging and lane-changing at highway speed and unprotected left-hand turns. Aurora built upon these in 2022, unlocking increasingly complex capabilities each quarter, including:    Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.     Former Ryder CTO Kendra Phillips will lead Aurora's trucking and logistics partner programs. The newest one—a Fort Worth-El Paso hauling route for Werner Enterprises—is a key link in the commercial thoroughfare from L.A. to Atlanta. But it's a flat, monotonous run that many truck drivers find unappealing—making it a key test case for the Aurora Driver. Aurora capped off a six-month pilot test of its autonomous Toyota S-AM minivans in Dallas-Fort Worth by giving Toyota North America CEO Ted Ogawa and other execs a ride toward DFW Airport yesterday. Aurora will continue to test and develop its ride-hailing and autonomous trucking tech from Dallas, including a new trucking route from Dallas to El Paso. It expects to launch its ride-hailing product, Aurora Connect, in late 2024. Self-driving trucking company Kodiak Robotics is teaming up with U.S. Xpress to launch autonomous freight service between Dallas and Atlanta using Kodiak's self-driving trucks—with operators in the cab to monitor things. It's the first launch of a commercial autonomous trucking lane to the East Coast, following earlier Kodiak routes from Dallas to Houston, San Antonio, and Oklahoma City. In this week's roundup of hires, promotions, and accolades in North Texas, you'll also find news from Firehouse, Enseo, Cambium Learning, D Magazine, Lear Investment Management, Spacee, Envy Gaming, 5Q, Stream Realty Partners, Nanoscope, Crossplane Capital, Improving, TimelyMD and more. The Dallas-based marine tech startup will take preorders in 2023 and set sail with production boats in 2024. Warbird Holdings CEO John Dorton—a veteran in both boat building and leadership—is joining the startup’s board to help AllOY make waves in the $57 billion recreational boat market.  AllOY emerged from stealth this summer to bring electric power and autonomous tech to boating. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.