Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Check out the companies making headlines before the opening bell:  Etsy — Shares fell more than 6% in premarket after Jefferies double-downgraded the online marketplace to underperform from buy. The firm cited the company's need to spend more on marketing as buyer churn increases. Silvergate Capital — Shares of the crypto lender tumbled 50% after the company announced it will wind down operations and liquidate Silvergate Bank. The news comes about a week after the bank warned it may not be able to continue operating and follows a series of financial challenges and government investigations in the aftermath of the collapse of FTX, which was a customer of the bank. Uber — Shares of the ride-hailing company rose about 2% in premarket trading following a Bloomberg report that Uber is considering spinning off its freight logistics division. The freight unit had $1.5 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter. MongoDB — Shares of the database platform provider slid over 10% in premarket. The decline came after MongoDB offered weak guidance on revenue that disappointed investors. The company did post earnings and revenue that beat expectations for the fourth quarter. SVB Financial — The financial services company's stock dropped 30% after the firm announced that it intends to offer $1.25 billion of its common stock and $500 million of depositary shares. Credit Suisse —The U.S.-traded shares of the Swiss bank fell more than 4% in premarket trading after the company announced it would delay its annual report after receiving comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. The regulator's comments were about cash flow statements in 2019 and 2020, the bank said. LoanDepot — The mortgage lender's shares shed over 10% after its fourth-quarter earnings report missed analysts' expectations. The company reported a loss of 46 cents per share and revenue of $169.7 million. Analysts polled by FactSet had estimated an earnings loss of 27 cents per share and revenue of $190.9 million. Hilton — Shares of the hotel chained inched up 0.5% in premarket after Barclays upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight, saying the company can weather macro challenges better than its peers.   — CNBC's Alex Harring and Jesse Pound contributed reporting. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by