Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Jessica Wong
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Micah Zimmerman
              


            Dec 22, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   The internet has changed business almost beyond recognition. Gone are the days when business cards, a listing in the yellow pages and well-considered display advertising were needed to establish a presence with potential customers. In the 21st century, digital marketing has replaced many traditional marketing activities. Social media networks are among the most effective channels for establishing an online presence. Since the advent of the world wide web in the 1990s, having an online presence has become all but a requirement for successful businesses. Customers look for products and services online, and many have become accustomed to online shopping. Granted, there may be some local businesses that manage to attract customers by word-of-mouth only, but most companies rely on online connections. For the first decade and a half of the internet's existence for the public, building an online presence relied on creating a company website and perhaps using email marketing. Since then, digital marketing has grown and diversified, with social media networks becoming one of the most important marketing tools. Being visible on social media allows brands to connect directly to consumers and establish trust between a business and its potential customers. In addition, leading social media networks offer marketing tools explicitly designed to help brands connect to their audiences. By 2021, more than 90% of U.S. businesses with more than 100 employees were using these tools for social media marketing. However, your brand can be small to benefit from an online presence. Most social media marketing tools will scale up or down to accommodate companies of all sizes. Related: How to Make Social Media Marketing Effective for Your Brand Building a successful, effective online presence on social media requires a strategic approach [perhaps link to the previous article here]. Before going into detail, it is worth defining what we mean by social media presence. The term refers to a brand's social media visibility and its audience connections. Three main pillars to help establish this presence are branding, public relations (PR) and digital marketing. For all three, a strategic, well-planned approach delivers the best results. Simply adding a post now and then is not enough to establish a recognizable presence or build lasting connections with your target audiences. Related: Why Effective Content Marketing Will Transform Your Social Media By the time they start building their online presence, most businesses have created a brand identity and developed a strategy for branding. If that is the case for your business, your brand must remain recognizable on social media. The company's brand voice and aesthetic should be easily identifiable across all digital and analog marketing channels. In practice, that means a social media user scrolling through their feed should be able to recognize your posts without seeing your brand logo or your account handle. Aligning brand messages between all channels helps reinforce and strengthen them. Alignment also helps build trust and credibility with potential consumers. On the other hand, if your brand voice, messages and visual presentation differ between outlets, the differences will create confusion. They dilute the brand's messaging and damage the credibility you are trying to build online. Strategic PR is another channel brands can use to engage their audiences. Public relations has traditionally relied on media outlets to disseminate brand messages. However, by using social media, brands can reach audiences — including journalists — directly and start a conversation. If the conversation is relevant to other audiences, social media platforms make sharing content easy and increase its reach. As a result, new audiences become aware of the brand, leading to a greater social media presence. Another way of leveraging PR to increase a brand's online presence is by contributing to other media outlets as an expert guest or regular contributor and linking to your brand's social media channels. Related: What's Hot and What's Not in Public Relations for 2023 Brands with a successful social network presence utilize all their digital marketing channels to build that presence. These synergies between marketing activities do not happen automatically. They must be written into your digital marketing and social media marketing strategy. In practice, your marketing and brand team must actively pursue opportunities to highlight your social media presence and drive engagement. Here is an example: if your brand has been using email marketing successfully to connect to consumers, encourage readers to connect to you on social media. They benefit by establishing a more immediate and direct connection if they need support — your brand benefits by being able to connect more frequently. Other digital marketing channels like blogs can elaborate on a topic introduced on social media and encourage readers to join your brand's community on a specific channel. The key to using other digital marketing channels to support your social network presence is to create connections between your brand's channels. Related: How to Build on Your Digital Marketing Momentum in 2023 Building a successful online presence through social media networks requires a consistent and strategic approach. Utilizing existing digital marketing channels and ensuring close alignment with the company's overall branding supports a growing social media presence. In addition, strategic PR activities can also increase a brand's social media presence across all its channels. Delivering consistent, relevant content that aligns with overall brand objectives is the key to growing and maintaining an engaged social network audience. Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor Founder and CEO of Valux Digital and uPro Digital. 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          There aren't enough hours in the day, but these tips will make them feel slightly more productive.
         
          Lauren Chew, founder and CEO of Love+Chew, set out to "change our broken food system" with her first entrepreneurial venture.
         
          What's real in the age of AI and deepfakes? 
         
          "Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."
         
          The "Shark Tank" star spoke with Entrepreneur about the launch of his new advertising agency, WonderAds.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
