Tuesday, August 20, 2024 Shreya Bose Jul 29, 2023 The Goa government has filed a police complaint against Uber for illegally operating its services in the state. Airport services Uber had started its services in Goa, including airport pick-up and drop, earlier last week. However, the Manohar International Airport denied any such partnership with Uber. “We would like to emphasize that Manohar International Airport has not entered into any formal partnership or establishment with Uber in Goa.  While there have been speculations circulating regarding the launch of Uber services in Goa, we would like to request that the relevant authorities be contacted for official confirmation,” the statement said. Protest against cab aggregators Goa currently has one app-based taxi service, Goa Miles. The entry of app-based cab aggregators in Goa has been met with opposition and protests by local taxi unions and privately-owned taxi associations. They accuse the companies of encroaching on their livelihood. Complaint to cyber crime cell State Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho said that his department has filed a formal complaint against Uber for operating in the state without permission. “The moment it came to our notice, we sent an email, and yesterday, a formal complaint was lodged with the cyber crime police. It is illegal if the cabs are plying without permission. So, we have to take action. How can one start and carry on a business, especially such big companies, without taking formal permission?” he said. The department has asked the police to take action against the app-based taxi aggregator. Investigation Assistant Director of Transport Francisco Vaz has filed the complaint with the cyber crime cell. “Assistant director of transport (South), Vasco, carried out a local inquiry and, to confirm the fact, booked a ride on July 4, 2023, at 3pm on the Uber App with a dummy pick-up location — Dabolim Airport at 3.50pm — and drop-off location as Hard Rock Hotel. The same was confirmed at 3.07pm,” the complaint stated. “You are requested to block the online app services provided by the Uber App in Goa and initiate suitable legal action under the Information Technology Act and other laws against the responsible officers of the company”, it further said. Shivendu Bhushan, SP Cyber Crime, said, “A complaint was received in this regard, following which an inquiry was conducted and accordingly, the reply has been submitted to the Transport Department for necessary action. No case has been registered so far.” No chance of future permission Godinho said the government had already made it clear that it will not allow app-based taxi aggregators Ola and Uber to operate in the state. “The question of us giving any permission does not arise at all…The government has decided in the past to not give permission to Ola and Uber. The stand has not changed. If it changes ever…all situations are always dynamic…I will take [all] in confidence. Every taxi operator wants to come to Goa…but, at present there is no such proposal even to get them [cab aggregators],” he said.  

  Previous article 
 
Next article  
 
 Get latest news and views related to startups, tech and business As disease rates rise and medical technology develops, treatment costs climb. It’s essential to understand that medical costs are not exclusively associated with hospitals. The cost of prescription drugs, diagnostic procedures, ambulance and operating room fees, consultations with doctors, and other costs are also constantly increasing. All of them could put a big strain on […] In its latest update Apple said that it is preparing for the iOS 16.2 update for iPhones across the world. Notably, like the previous release, there are a couple of changes coming for the iPhones.  iOS 16.2 Update Release Date So far, Apple has not announced a release date for iOS 16.2 update. Reportedly, the […] Around 300 workers at Microsoft Corp.’s ZeniMax Studios have commenced the process of forming a union which is said to be the first at the software giant in the US.  Here, Microsoft Corp.’s ZeniMax Studios known for popular video games including Skyrim and Fallout. Forming Union In Microsoft Corp Moreover, the quality assurance employees at […] India’s air safety protocols and executions have improved drastically over the years, as validated by the findings of a specialized agency of the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Organization or ICAO. The UN watchdog has upgraded India’s ranking in terms of aviation safety to the 48th position, jumping past the rankings of countries like […] Get latest news and views related to startups, tech and business Trak.in is a mission to uncover the truth: We are India’s leading news portal, covering business, technology, ecommerce, startups, and mobile ecosystem.
 © 2024 - Trak.in - Indian Business of Tech, Mobile & Startups. All Rights Reserved. 
Part of Awesome Websites.
