
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 One game is reportedly a single-player-only game, while the other one will be a multiplayer-only game. By 
    Luis Joshua Gutierrez
   on January 26, 2023 at 2:22PM PST Ubisoft is reportedly working on two Far Cry games. One will be a single-player experience, while the other will be a multiplayer-based game. This is according to an Insider Gaming report that claims the unannounced Far Cry game was originally meant to be one game until Dan Hay, the former franchise executive director for Far Cry, left Ubisoft to work at Blizzard Entertainment. The report goes on to say that the single-player project is now being referred to as Project Blackbird, and the multiplayer Far Cry is being called Project Maverick, with Ubisoft Montreal being heavily involved in both games. Although not much is known, the report suggests that Project Maverick will be set in the Alaskan wilderness and is set to be an extraction-based looter-shooter. This does align with a previous poll that Ubiosft did in the past that was originally spotted by PC Gamer, where it asked fans where they'd like the next Far Cry to be based--one of the options was Alaska. The news of the unannounced Far Cry games comes a few weeks after it was reported that Ubisoft has canceled three unannounced projects and delayed Skull and Bones yet again. Far Cry 6 was the most recent mainline game in the series and was released in 2021. Traditionally, most Far Cry games have been single-player focuses with the option to play co-op. The last installment to feature a PvP multiplayer mode was Far Cry 3, which came out in 2012. For more, check out GameSpot's Far Cry 6 review, where Phil Hornshaw wrote, "Far Cry 6 is often a fun game that feels like it's throwing everything at you, and if you want a heap of content, Far Cry 6 absolutely has you covered." Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 