Thaqil's streamer charm will be removed from the game. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Ubisoft says it is cutting ties with Rainbow Six Siege streamer Thaqil and removing his streamer charm from the game as a result of a series of racist jokes he made on Tiktok about the Black operator Castle. Thaqil made at least three videos on Tiktok targeting Castle: A "Kiss, Marry, Avoid" in which he said he'd avoid Castle "because he's black," a "challenge" to name an operator based on the letter N in which he picked Castle, and one in which he looked meaningfully at a banana after being assigned to play Castle. The Tiktoks have since been deleted but are still accessible on Twitter. "Ubisoft does not tolerate any form of racism, bullying or harassment," Ubisoft told NME. "We believe in providing positive and engaging entertainment experiences where everyone feels welcome, included and celebrated. "Following an investigation, it has become clear that content creator Thaqil’s recent posts on social media are in breach of Ubisoft’s Code of Conduct. As a result, Thaqil will no longer be part of our content creators program and his charm will be removed from Rainbow Six Siege." In an apology posted to Twitlonger, Thaqil admitted that he "knew what [he] was doing" when he made the videos, but denied being intentionally racist. "My main objective was to be edgy and make people laugh but I now realize that my attempt on humour may come across as insensitive and offensive, for that I am truly sorry," Thaqil wrote. "I don’t stand for racism or any discrimination of any kind. I have seen comments floating around that, despite defending me, I don’t stand by. "I now understand that the content I make can reflect on the way that people treat other people and that it’s not okay to behave as such. It shouldn’t work like that but I now realise that is how it works and that I do have an influence on people." Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. I'm SorryRead: https://t.co/G9UzcmjwIfApril 12, 2023 Streamer charms in Rainbow Six Siege are released seasonally, and there are dozens of them. A few are associated with big-name streamers like Shroud and AnneMunition, but the streamer charm program is open to any Twitch partner with at least 150 or more concurrent viewers, 10 Rainbow Six streams per month, and 20 hours of Rainbow Six streaming per month.   Program members must also maintain "positive standing with Ubisoft/Rainbow Six Siege," and, as the Siege code of conduct states, "Your actions have consequences." "The purpose of our Code of Conduct and Terms of Use is to provide safe and welcoming communities for all, and any suspected breaches of these guidelines and rules will result in an investigation that could lead to sanctions," it reads. "Sanctions may vary depending on the severity, impact and/or frequency of breaches. We don’t enjoy taking this kind of action, but breaking the rules can negatively impact the community, and therefore we need to hold you accountable." Unfortunately (but unsurprisingly), many of the replies to Thaqil's apology tweet are dismissive of the racism and defend his videos as just "jokes." Luckily, Ubisoft doesn't take crappy public opinions into account when it's making policy and enforcement decisions. I've reached out to ask if Thaqil's charm removal is permanent or if he'll be allowed back into the program at some point in the future, and will update if I receive a reply. Andy has been gaming on PCs from the very beginning, starting as a youngster with text adventures and primitive action games on a cassette-based TRS80. From there he graduated to the glory days of Sierra Online adventures and Microprose sims, ran a local BBS, learned how to build PCs, and developed a longstanding love of RPGs, immersive sims, and shooters. He began writing videogame news in 2007 for The Escapist and somehow managed to avoid getting fired until 2014, when he joined the storied ranks of PC Gamer. He covers all aspects of the industry, from new game announcements and patch notes to legal disputes, Twitch beefs, esports, and Henry Cavill. Lots of Henry Cavill. Black Myth: Wukong has some bonkers streamer guidelines about not using the game to spread 'feminist propaganda' or discuss anything about China Ubisoft reveals full Star Wars Outlaws system requirements and PC-specific features 'Britain's Bill Gates' among 6 missing after superyacht tragedy off coast of Sicily: 'We should have found something by now' PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 