Ubisoft Massive's game has been in production for over five years now 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora is looking to push the technological envelope forwards, just like James Cameron's movies. GamesRadar+ recently spoke to Magnus Jansén, creative director of Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, about the ambitions of Ubisoft's new game. "The time has been spent on building a brand new part of Pandora and creating the tools needed to bring it to life on the latest generation of console and PC hardware," Jansén says of Avatar's journey so far. "At the heart of this effort is Snowdrop – our game engine. When we first met with Lightstorm (the James Cameron-led production company), Snowdrop is what showed to our partners that we were willing to push the envelope of technology, just like they do in the films. It was and still is the key foundation of our ongoing collaboration," the creative director continues. Ubisoft Massive, the studio in charge of the Avatar game, has long been working on the technology for the new game, with the project being in production for at least five years. During this time, Jansén says Ubisoft Massive has been continually learning from and collaborating with Lightstorm Entertainment and Disney. Right now, Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora is set to launch in Ubisoft's next fiscal year, arriving at some point before March 31, 2024, telling the story of Pandora before the time jump seen in Avatar: The Way of Water. Head over to our complete Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora preview for a deeper dive into what to expect from the ambitious new game.  You can also read up on our new games 2023 guide for a look at what to expect before we see more of Ubisoft's Avatar game.  Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Hirun Cryer is a freelance reporter and writer with Gamesradar+ based out of U.K. After earning a degree in American History specializing in journalism, cinema, literature, and history, he stepped into the games writing world, with a focus on shooters, indie games, and RPGs, and has since been the recipient of the MCV 30 Under 30 award for 2021. In his spare time he freelances with other outlets around the industry, practices Japanese, and enjoys contemporary manga and anime. Hideo Kojima drops a new Death Stranding 2 actor teaser, but fans quickly deduce that it's one of his long-time collaborators Rockstar's classic Bully has been rated for consoles and PC, but it's probably just the imminent GTA+ re-release 32 movies that revolutionized VFX GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 