After Google announced Stadia's shutdown earlier this year, Ubisoft said it would help users transfer their purchases to PC. We got more detail today, as the publisher says it will provide free PC versions of all Ubisoft games bought on Stadia. The publisher also has other perks to make the transition as smooth as possible for jilted users of Google's platform. Anyone who bought Ubisoft games on Stadia should see the PC versions of those games appear in their Ubisoft Connect accounts at no extra cost. If your Stadia and Ubisoft accounts aren’t yet linked, connect them before Stadia shuts down on January 18th to get the PC games. Additionally, if you played Ubisoft games with cross-progression (complete list), you can pick up your progress on PC where you left off on Stadia. Ubisoft notes any unspent virtual currency won’t transfer. Still, if you use it in Stadia before January 18th, the purchased items will move to PC (but only for games supporting cross-progression). Meanwhile, Stadia gamers who subscribed to Ubisoft+ Multi-Access (the company's plan that lets you play on multiple devices) will receive an email telling them how to sign up directly through the Ubisoft+ website. As a bonus, subscribers will also get a free month of Ubisoft+. The publisher notes that US residents can continue streaming Ubisoft+ games through Amazon Luna, and those living elsewhere will get a discount on Ubisoft+ Multi-Access for six months. Additionally, If you bought or subscribed to any Ubisoft content on Stadia, you'll receive one free month of GeForce Now Priority. The perks are on top of Google's refunds for all game purchases, so Ubisoft's PC games are a no-charge consolation prize. Investing in a cloud-gaming platform requires customers to trust that their purchases won’t be all for naught if the platform fails, but at least Google and its partners are doing what they can to make it right. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.