Top Online Courses to Learn Java Your email has been sent  Java is one of the most prevalent programming languages today, and knowing it can open up new career opportunities in software development and related fields. One of the best and most convenient ways to learn Java is through online courses. This guide will feature some of the top online courses to learn Java from TechRepublic Academy, Coursera, and Udemy. Whether you are a beginner looking to break into software development or experienced and looking to pad your resume while expanding your skillset, investing your time and a bit of money into these online programming courses can help you achieve your goals. Jump to: The Complete 2023 Java Coder Bundle from TechRepublic Academy combines nine programming courses and 70 hours of developer education into one affordable package. Its various developer classes can get newbies acquainted with the Java framework and expand their knowledge until they become experts, making it the perfect choice for someone looking towards a long-term career in software development. And while it does contain a ton of content, the fact that The Complete 2023 Java Coder Bundle comes in an online class format means you can work at your own pace. This bundled collection of Java classes from TR Academy includes: TechRepublic Academy has another set of Java classes for those looking to increase their developer education: The Ultimate Java Expert Certification Bundle. Over 400 students are enrolled in this Java framework bundle from TR Academy, which is comprised of 11 programming courses that take 38 hours to complete. Purchase The Ultimate Java Expert Certification Bundle for one low price from TR Academy, and you can access a wide variety of Java classes to help you progress from beginner to expert levels, such as: Join the 100-plus students enrolled in The Java Bootcamp Bundle from TR Academy, and you will unlock access to 10 programming classes that take 10 hours to complete. The bundle’s online classes on the Java framework include: Would you like to become a software engineer? First, you must learn the fundamentals of programming and software development. Where can you acquire such knowledge? Through Duke University’s Java Programming and Software Engineering Fundamentals Specialization on Coursera. A whopping 288,000 plus students are enrolled in this online class designed for beginners looking to kickstart their developer education. The specialization includes the following Java courses: Students must execute a hands-on project to complete the specialization and earn a certificate. Beginners should find the Introduction to Java online class on Coursera right up their alley. The introductory Java course offered by LearnQuest is part of the Core Java Specialization. Complete it and LearnQuest’s subsequent Java Bootcamps to gain the skills and expertise needed to enjoy a career as an IT developer. Introduction to Java is geared towards anyone who wants to learn the programming language, plus application developers, programmers, and technical managers. Once complete, you will be able to write simple Java code, incorporate branches and loops, identify the framework’s benefits, and more. The first week of the programming class offers an introduction to Java. The second week covers Java language fundamentals and primitive types, and the third week wraps up with writing simple expressions, branching, looping, etc. As mentioned, LearnQuest’s Core Java Specialization on Coursera is a series of programming classes that can give you the necessary skills to become an IT developer. It includes four Java courses that consist of several hands-on exercises to give students real-world experience: Duke University offers Java Programming: Solving Problems with Software through Coursera. Designed for students looking to boost their problem-solving capabilities and programming skills, this developer class teaches how to design algorithms, write and debug programs, and more. Over 350,000 students are enrolled in Java Programming: Solving Problems with Software. The developer class consists of modules on fundamental Java syntax and semantics, strings in Java, and CSV files and basic statistics. The final module has students complete a mini project where they must build a program that analyzes CSV files to determine the popularity of baby names. Over 51,000 students have enrolled in the Learn Java Programming – Beginner to Master course on Udemy. The Java course features over 61 hours of on-demand video, and some of the biggest names, including Nasdaq and Volkswagen, have offered it to their employees to enhance their programming knowledge and software development skills. Some of the 31 sections in Learn Java Programming – Beginner to Master include: Once finished with the online course, you will have the skills needed to build your own Java applications, which can advance your career as a software developer. Udemy’s Java Programming Masterclass features over 118 hours of on-demand video to help you become a computer programmer. Beyond sharpening your Java skills, the Programming Masterclass will give you a certification that can put your resume at the top of the pile when applying for developer positions. The Java Programming Masterclass is not all theory, as it includes 53 coding exercises to help students practice their skills as they learn. Some of its 41 sections include: The Java Programming for Complete Beginners course from Udemy has over 33 hours of on-demand video, plus plenty of puzzles and exercises to help you get familiar with the programming language and ace your interviews. Over 211,000 students have taken this Java course that includes sections on object-oriented programming, conditionals, loops, reference types, arrays, and more. Your desired career as a Java developer is much closer than you think. Take one or more of the courses above, and you will gain the Java programming skills and knowledge you need to make employers notice. SEE: Top programming languages companies want 
                    From the hottest programming languages to commentary on the Linux OS, get the developer and open source news and tips you need to know. Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays                 
                    From the hottest programming languages to commentary on the Linux OS, get the developer and open source news and tips you need to know. Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays                 Top Online Courses to Learn Java Your email has been sent 
            Get the web's best business technology news, tutorials, reviews, trends, and analysis—in 
            your inbox. Let's start with the basics.
         
* - indicates required fields
         
            Lost your password? Request a new password
 
            Please enter your email adress. You will receive an email message with instructions on how to reset your password.
         
            Check your email for a password reset link. If you didn't receive an email don't forgot to check your spam folder, otherwise contact support.
         
            This will help us provide you with customized content.
         
            Thanks for signing up! Keep an eye out for a confirmation email from our team. To ensure any newsletters you subscribed to hit your inbox, make sure to add newsletters@nl.technologyadvice.com to your contacts list.
        