Listen to Story EdTech, the blue-eyed sector of investors and a savior for millions of students, is in the doldrums. Once known as a sector that would revolutionise the education system, parents are now up in arms against many of these platforms. Parents are now ferociously complaining about these platforms, their systems, and their impact on students.
 



81 percent of edtech platform users surveyed have faced issues in the last 24 months, according to a survey conducted by Local Circles.
The poster boy for edtech in India has been Byjus, but the company has been facing issues over the past many years.
Now, a survey by Local Circles shows that 32 percent of users have faced issues with Byjus.
The biggest issue faced by customers has been getting fee refunds after the trial period, with a whopping 65 percent saying that fee refunds were a major pain point for them.
62 percent had problems with changes in teaching staff and the effectiveness of teaching, while 35 percent had complaints about false promises, trust, and transparency issues.
 It is not just Byju's that customers have complained about; other platforms like Unacademy and Udemy have also received complaints. Online education or learning via technology platforms really took off during the pandemic as parents and individuals explored options for improved learning and taking additional courses, many of which were offered at discounted prices compared to offline classes.
 


 But over the last two years, a lot of complaints have surfaced, with parents approaching the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and other consumer forums to seek resolution of various fraudulent activities, including overcharging course fees, not providing refunds after an unsatisfactory trial period, not providing any services, teacher ineffectiveness, poor-quality course material, etc. The situation was so severe that in January 2022, the central government issued an advisory asking users to be cautious before signing up for online courses and not to click on the auto-debit feature offered by companies. Union Minister of State (MoS) for Education, Dr Subhas Sarkar, has also been reported as saying, "Do not trust the 'success stories' shared by the edtech companies without proper verification as they might be a trap to gather more audience." Over the last few years, several online education platforms have emerged. Some, like Lido Learning, shut shop after charging full fees for their courses, and almost all platforms have laid off their employees. The list of platforms that have shut down is long, including Udayy, Qin1, and Superlearn. Several countries have taken action after Human Rights Watch uncovered children's rights violations worldwide by governments that authorized unsafe online learning products during the Covid-19 pandemic.
 


 In December 2022, the NCPCR issued a summons to Byju's founder, Byju Raveendran, over allegations of the platform "indulging in malpractice." In May 2023, the Enforcement Directorate was reported to have searched premises linked to Byju's over alleged violations of forex rules. On June 23, media reports stated that three directors of Byju's representing some prominent investors had resigned along with its auditor, Deloitte.THE FUNDING BUBBLE BURST IN 2021 Data analysis shows that venture funding to the edtech sector rose from USD 500 million in 2019 to USD 4.7 billion in 2020, with USD 1.9 billion flowing into Byjus alone. In 2021, startups began popping up, and four out of ten startups founded in 2021 were in the EdTech sector. And then the bubble burst. Tracen data shows that funding in the Indian edtech startup ecosystem dipped from USD 4.1 billion in 2021 to USD 2.5 billion in 2022. In 2021 and the following year, the Ministry of Education took note of the rising complaints against the predatory marketing and advertising techniques used by EdTech companies and announced plans to formulate laws to regulate this market. In response, the Internet & Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) constituted a self-regulatory body called the Indian EdTech Consortium (IEC). Assessment of survey data by Local Circles shows that refunds and changes in teaching staff/effectiveness are the top issues faced by online education platform users in the last two years. The top issue indicated by those surveyed shows that 65 percent had problems with getting fee refunds when the courses were found to be below expectations, 62 percent had problems with changes in teaching staff/effectiveness of teaching, and 35 percent had complaints about false promises, trust, and transparency issues. 



 32 percent of respondents had issues with Byju's, while many parents have problems with Unacademy, Udemy, Physicswallah, and others.Published By: Divya Chopra Published On: Jun 25, 2023--- ENDS ---Read |  Why online learning platforms are becoming more important for competitive exams | ExplainedRead |  5 online learning platforms that revolutionised learning for students in 2021AdvertisementAajtak Campus - Your College Search Partner!
 
