Losing stings. But when you think you’re taking lip from a 42-year-old guy off the bench on top of losing, things can get ugly. Former Hog and current Milwaukee Bucks forward Bobby Portis had such an exchange Wednesday night. During the second quarter of the Bucks’ eventual Game 5 loss to Miami, benches cleared when Portis and long-time Heat center Udonis Haslem traded words. Officials stepped in before things became too chaotic, but the heat was clear. Udonis Haslem had some words for Bobby Portis during the first half 👀 UD picked up a tech from the bench.pic.twitter.com/mdecoRbDes — Ball Don’t Lie (@Balldontlie) April 27, 2023   The Bucks were eliminated about 90 real-time minutes later. Portis may have entered miffed considering Milwaukee was the No. 1-seed in the Eastern Conference. Portis averaged 14 points and almost 10 rebounds a game during the regular season. A technical foul to him was the last thing Milwaukee needed. Haslem is in 20th year in the NBA. You don’t have a career that long without knowing a thing or two about the mental aspect. Especially true when you haven’t played in more than 16 games in a season since 2016 and haven’t been a regular starter since 2013. Literally 10 years. Regardless, the Gator beat the Hog on Wednesday. Story originally appeared on Razorbacks Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin.