Miami Heat veteran Udonis Haslem is in his 20th and final season with the team and likely played in his last game Sunday. As he was honored ahead of the Heat's regular-season finale against the Orlando Magic, center Bam Adebayo interrupted with a gift. “There you go man, take your seat,” Adebayo said, gesturing toward a custom rocking chair. Initially offering it to Heat great Dwyane Wade, who stood courtside, Haslem eventually sat down with a smile. Before the interruption, Haslem thanked his family and spoke to his hometown fans for their support throughout his long career. Udonis Haslem gets a rocking chair for his retirement game. 😂😂 pic.twitter.com/2N436ZUdcF — Hoop Central (@TheHoopCentral) April 9, 2023 “Whether I was starting, whether I was the first guy off the bench or whether I didn’t play at all, you guys always had my back and showed love,” Haslem said. “For me, that’s priceless. That’s beautiful. And that’s why it made it all so easy just to sacrifice everything.” Spending his whole career in Miami, he will retire as the franchise's all-time leading rebounder and a three-time champion. The Heat will retire his No. 40 jersey next season. Only Haslem, Dirk Nowitzki and Kobe Bryant remained with one franchise for two decades. Sunday marked Haslem's seventh appearance this season. Playing in 25 games through the last four years and 65 over the last seven, Miami has retained him year-after-year for his supporting role on the sideline and in the locker room.  Checking in three minutes into the game, the 42-year-old was applauded as the fifth-oldest player to make an NBA game appearance. That accomplishment set the tone for a memorable first quarter, which saw Haslem record 13 points — more than he had scored in a game since 2015. With three minutes left in the first, his trademark jumper electrified the crowd. Feed your superstar.@MiamiHEAT | #HEATCulture pic.twitter.com/KlfZfYYrvH — Bally Sports Florida & Bally Sports Sun (@BallySportsFL) April 9, 2023 Haslem didn't stop there. Taking a lob from Duncan Robinson, he made a 4-foot dunk and briefly hung on the rim. UD... OFF THE LOB?! 😱🔥Haslem dropped 13 in the first quarter — his most points in a game since 2015.pic.twitter.com/nxbihrYwoj — Ball Don’t Lie (@Balldontlie) April 9, 2023 He ended up recording 24 points, his highest-scoring game since he put up 28 points on Nov. 14, 2009. Haslem's story of impact and longevity is unique and fans in the arena recognized that. Waving, shaking hands and hugging members of his team, the longtime Heat star checked out of the game one last time to a loud standing ovation. Udonis Haslem checks out of the game one final time. What a day. 24 points. What a career! pic.twitter.com/hMBFjQmxhL — Will Manso (@WillManso) April 9, 2023 According to Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, this isn't really goodbye. "Short answer is I'm going to miss him," he said. "But he's not going anywhere, it's just going to be a different role. And I think he'll find a way to make this role even more impactful than what he's done now. He's already done that five or six times over the course of his career, it will be a reinvention and he'll find a way to move the needle." Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Christian Polanco and David Gass chat the USMNT reportedly hiring Mauricio Pochettino. They also discuss major storylines head of Premier League season, discuss MLS transfer news, and recap Leagues Cup round of 16.