Global site navigation Local editions Kolade Dominate is one of the notable voices in the Nigerian broadcasting space. Having built a force in his career for over 10 years and worked closely with some of the country's incredible music talents, he spoke with Legit.ng on the nostalgia and progression of radio entertainment, as well as how every citizen may benefit from the 'Afrobeats to the world' movement Unlock the best of Legit.ng on Pinterest! Subscribe now and get your daily inspiration!  Victor Akolade, popularly known as Kolade Dominate, is one of the country’s finest media broadcasters with Inspiration FM 92.3 Lagos, where he hosts one of the most-listened-to shows in Lagos State.  With a media agency under his belt, Kolade has used his expertise to collaborate with brands and top Nigerian music artists such as Olamide and Wizkid, to name a few. In an interview with Legit.ng's Chinasa Afigbo, he discussed his rise in the media, the challenges and relevance of radio in the face of technology and streaming platforms, and the future of the ‘Afrobeats to world’ movement. Read also Senate presidency: Disparities over Muslim dominance in Tinubu's govt as tribal leaders reject Yari Kolade is a national diploma holder in digital multimedia, with a degree in mass communications from the Université Protestante de l’Afrique de l’Ouest in Porto Novo, amongst other media certifications. PAY ATTENTION: Сheck out news that is picked exactly for YOU ➡️  find the “Recommended for you” block on the home page and enjoy! His journey into the media started casually in 2006 due to his familial influences but kicked off officially in 2010 at Star FM Lagos. Read also 5 important things President Tinubu must do to save Nigeria After his broadcasting training at the National Broadcast Academy, Kolade was given the opportunity to present radio shows with other veterans at that time in Star FM Lagos. But his quest continued:  Read also AI meets VR to keep Holocaust memory alive According to the mic junkie, radio used to be the first source to get the latest jamz and album snippets, unlike before. These days, the system now merges social media with radio to keep up with the trend. Before, OAPs were comfortable behind the microphone. Now everybody is doing something extra, Kolade hinted. Read also Talented boy who walks to school daily from Lakeside to Adenta builds model-cardboard house, many react to video Kolade, on the other hand, feels that the internet can only make radio more accessible. Radio, he claims, "can remain topnotch with what they bring to the table." Read also New Ambassador Alert: Minimie Welcomes Basket Mouth on Board Explicit and developmental content like investigative journalism can help put radio on the map, he revealed. As an artist, Kolade believes radio will always be a tool  to help push their music to a larger audience. Read also Burna Boy becomes first African artiste to sell out 80k-capacity stadium in London UK: "Odogwu you bad" He noted that to ensure the buzz stays longer, we need a strong statement and education around it that will help us structure, give credit, identify our sources, and base and keep our history. The Billboard US Afrobeats compiles its charts based on streams from the most prominent music streaming services in the United States, including Apple Music, YouTube, YouTube Music, Deezer, Spotify, Amazon Music, Audiomack, and Booplay. Read also Rufai Oseni and 4 other Nigerian media personalities who strongly criticise Tinubu, APC Kolade argues that the Nigerian music/Afrobeats shouldn’t be regulated by a system owned by external brands. The OAP noted that a song topping Apple Music doesn’t mean that it is the biggest in the country. With over 200 million people in the country, Tech Cabal recorded that in 2020, Apple Music Nigeria had 140,000 subscribers. This was before the Nigerian government suspended international transactions on Naira cards. Only God knows how many subscribers the foreign platform has lost since the restriction. Read also "I am the first individual Guinness World Records holder in Nigeria": Man, 31, with 3 certificates surfaces In the tradition of the Billboard Hot 100 charts, Turntable plans to create Nigeria's first indigenous chart, which would be rated using a variety of measures, including digital streaming and TV and radio airplay. The media host feels the industry is not favouring upcoming artists because it usually requires a lot of finances to hit the spotlight.  Read also Davido performs at Gov Otti of Abia's inauguration, video goes viral: "My idolo is very hardworking" Read also Finance, healthcare for veterans: 5 Things entertainment industry stands to benefit from Tinubu's presidency Source: Legit.ng 

                Chinasa Afigbo                                    (Editor)
                            
Chinasa Afigbo is a pop culture/music journalist and content writer with over four years of experience in other mainstream media organisations, including Vanguard Media and Guardian Life. She holds a degree in Information Management Technology from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO). She also moved on to pursue courses in writing & media communications. Chinasa has also been published in other Intl journals, like The African Report. Reach her at: chinasa.afigbo@corp.legit.ng.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you