Urban Decay's Eye-Con event, in partnership with Ulta Beauty, allows gamers to update their avatars with limited edition virtual make-up looks Urban Decay is hosting its first-ever metaverse make-up launch party. The cosmetics brand’s Urban Decay Eye-Con event on gaming platform Roblox enables users to try on 18 limited edition virtual make-up looks. The 3D avatar wearables use Urban Decay products that can be purchased in real life, such as the new 24/7 Inks Liquid Eyeliner.  Nine of the looks were designed by top beauty influencers, including Manny Gutierrez, Leilani Green and Emmy Comb. Gamers can flaunt their Urban Decay looks on the brand’s digital runway, as well as snap their new style at the selfie stations. Users can also watch make-up tutorials and test their beauty knowledge in a quiz.  "The world of Roblox lives at the intersection of beauty and tech, bringing our Urban Decay fam together," said Eva Erdmann, President of Urban Decay Global.  "As we build new communities of beauty creators and fans, our goal is simple: provide a platform that lets you unapologetically express yourself and connect with like-minded make-up lovers.” Urban Decay Eye-Con takes place in Ulta Beauty's Ultaverse on Roblox Urban Decay Eye-Con takes place in Ulta Beauty's Ultaverse on Roblox Urban Decay Eye-Con takes place in Ultaverse – US retailer Ulta Beauty's digital world inside Roblox – and will run until 12 June, 2023. Agustina Sartori, Senior Director of Digital Innovation at Ulta Beauty, commented: "We believe beauty has superpowers that unleash self-expression, fun and possibilities – and importantly, that beauty is for all.  "The Ultaverse is an inclusive, entertaining and educational destination for younger generations to embrace the joy of beauty digitally.  “Our work with Urban Decay only amplifies the creative ways such a dynamic destination can come to life." Urban Decay is not the first beauty brand to unveil innovations in the metaverse. NYX Professional launched its spring make-up collection on Roblox while Laura Mercier opened digital store World of Beauty in a bid to engage customers in a new way.  Through digital, live and print
                                    products, Cosmetics Business informs and inspires
                                    business leaders and decision-makers around the world. With a digital-first
                                    strategy, the Group’s Editors write breaking news, product releases, technical
                                    papers, innovation features, trend reports and live content agendas covering the
                                    entire industry from ingredients and packaging to regulation, retail and
                                    marketing.