The singer stunned the crowd with a surprise appearance at a recent Fenty Beauty event. Rihanna gave a crowd of beauty insiders a huge surprise when she showed up in person at a recent event with her baby bump on full display. The "Lift Me Up" songstress—who's currently expecting her second child with beau A$AP Rocky—swung by the Ulta Beauty: Be Your Own Kind of Beautiful conference in Las Vegas on April 11, clad in all-white from head-to-toe. For the function, the fashionista chose a skin-tight bodysuit that hugged her growing belly from all sides, paired with a floor-length denim skirt and matching jean jacket. As for footwear? Pregnancy never stops the 35-year-old mama from rocking her heels, as she paired the look with a pair of strappy stiletto sandals, in true bad gal fashion. View the original article to see embedded media. Though it was an industry event that also highlighted her makeup brand, Fenty Beauty, the audience didn't expect her to be in attendance and was visibly delighted to see the billionaire superstar take the stage. Attendees could be seen standing to their feet, cheering and applauding as Rihanna emerged from behind the curtains, dancing her way onto the platform. "I just wanted to stop by and say thank you. I had to see you guys in person because-" but before she could finish her sentence, someone from the crowd cut in, screaming, "I LOVE YOU!" to which she promptly responded, "Thank you, I love you too." She continued, expressing her gratefulness for all the support shown to Fenty Beauty since its launch at the retailer. The "Diamonds" superstar also announced a new product during her cameo, introducing the brand's Gloss Bomb Heat in Glass Slipper. Luckily, for fans who weren't in attendance, parts of the surprise appearance were documented on social media, with two TikTok Live recordings streamed and Instagram videos shared afterwards. View the original article to see embedded media. Fans promptly swarmed all the posts, gushing over the content published and how "amazing" she looked in it. "Man, This Caribbean gyal reign just keep [sic] getting better! Muva looking good 🤰🏽," one Instagrammer complimented, while another admitted, "I would simply pass out." "sweetest and most beautiful human alive like WHAT," a third wrote, as someone else noticed, "RIRI = Great Vibes all day everyday ❤️❤️❤️" We're not sure how she continues to top herself in the eyes of her loyal fanbase, but we'll leave you with this sentiment from another comment: "Rih was made for this life. So dope!" Next: Rihanna’s Son Rocks Jewels in Adorable New Photos With Bunnies New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.