Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. There's 1 day left to save on 50+ shopper-loved mascaras in Ulta's sale. Getty Images Whenever there’s a big beauty sale, our go-to makeup buy is a luxe, highly-rated mascara. Who wouldn’t want luscious lashes extending to double their natural length and volume and making them look more awake overall? It’s why mascara and other eye-popping products are a nonnegotiable part of our makeup routines, no matter how low-key or over-the-top. Actress Demi Moore agrees and lists her go-to mascara, the Monsieur Big Volumizing Mascara by Lancôme, as one of the only three beauty products always in her rotation, especially when she’s after a “minimal” look. She told InStyle that she has” really super sensitive skin,” so she looks to use things that are “highly effective and of the highest quality.” And right now, Ulta Beauty has the mascara she trusts for 40 percent off. Ulta $30 $18  Buy Now  The formula made the cut as part of the retailer’s Big Summer Beauty Sale, which ends in just 24 hours. I’m also a big fan of this mascara since it gives my lashes a lush, fuller look without being clumpy. It doesn’t migrate below my lower lash line, which often happens with volumizing mascaras that flake or smudge over the course of a day. The brush is also on the larger size without being overbearing, so you can ensure each lash is well-coated without the risk of accidentally getting mascara on your eyelid. One shopper who has used the Lancôme formula since 2017 said it “doesn’t flake, transfer, or run” and gives them a “false lash effect” that’s long-lasting. Another reviewer said they’ve “probably purchased 10+ tubes over the past few years” because it “doesn’t clump and provides intense volume” and stays put even through intense workouts. One person even said that, when using the mascara, you only need one coat for voluminous lashes thanks to its “perfect formula” that they say is “worth every penny.” Snag a tube of Demi Moore’s go-to mascara while it’s on sale at Ulta, and keep scrolling for other highly-rated formulas, like Tarte’s Tartelette Tubing Mascara and IT Cosmetics’ Superhero Elastic Stretch Volumizing and Lengthening Mascara, to add to your virtual cart before the 40 percent off sale ends in 24 hours. Ulta $25 $15  Buy Now  Ulta $28 $17  Buy Now  Ulta $29 $17  Buy Now  Ulta $25 $15  Buy Now  Ulta $25 $15  Buy Now  Ulta $25 $15  Buy Now  For more InStyle news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on InStyle. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.