Cloudy skies this morning will become partly cloudy this afternoon. High 69F. Winds NNW at 10 to 20 mph..
                                 Some clouds. Low 56F. Winds N at 10 to 20 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 10:10 am As the 2024 election inches closer, some people are turning to their faith leaders for guidance when determining who to vote for.   As young students get older, the involvement their parents have in their schooling begins to shift. They can go from being involved in almost every aspect to someone students can go to for help with homework assignments, or someone who watches over the big picture while trusting their studen… On Saturday, July 27, a Hezbollah rocket strike next to a soccer field in the northern Israeli town of Majdal Shams left 12 Israeli Druze children dead and dozens more injured.  Lauren B. Wolf, 68, born April 24, 1956, died Aug. 17, 2024.    Uptown Solon at 6025 Kruse Drive in Solon Old Navy at Uptown Solon is set to close next month. The shopping center was built in 1999 at 6025 Kruse Drive in Solon. Its current owner, San Franciso-based United Growth, purchased the shopping center in April 2021 for $10.1 million from Retail Value Inc., a Beachwood company formed to sell shopping centers owned by the former DDR Corp. At the time of purchase, the plaza was 66% occupied and featured stores like Bed Bath & Beyond, Petco, Ulta Beauty and Lumber Liquidators, in addition to the Old Navy location. Petco has also since closed. Mark Swerling, director of asset management at United Growth, told the Cleveland Jewish News in a Dec. 12 email that the closure is due in part to an expiring lease and close proximtry to other Old Navy stores in Northeast Ohio. Besides Solon, the closest Old Navy to the community is the Eastgate Shopping Center location in Mayfield Heights. Solon Mayor Edward Kraus told the CJN Dec. 12 that the closure is “disappointing” but is not really a surprise due to nationwide economic issues due to the COVID-19 pandemic and increased online shopping. “For years now, we had heard rumors (about a closure) but we’re obviously disappointed that they are closing,” Kraus said. “It’s a sign of the times. We’re not sure what they’re going through as a company, but I could imagine that they’re having the same downturns as everyone else. With the advent of online retail and everything getting shipped right to your house, it is affecting a lot of brick-and-mortar stores. This is a perfect example of that.” When United Growth first purchased the property, Kraus told the CJN that he was excited that United Growth was willing to invest $10.1 million into the city, showing that “retail is on the rise,” he said in April 2021. According to an April 2021 news release, 90% of the net proceeds from the sale were used to repay mortgage debt associated with the company and the remaining proceeds were retained as cash. Kraus said he hopes United Growth gets “creative” in bringing in new tenants to fill the shopping center. “(Old Navy) is probably a casualty of that,” he said. “We’re disappointed but not shocked. We were very optimistic when they purchased the plaza, but in this day and age, you have to be very creative. So, we’re hoping that United Growth can think outside of the box in recruiting new business. That is the only way it will work looking to the future uses of these places.” But United Growth doesn’t see the space being vacant for very long, Swerling said in the email. “We are currently seeing robust leasing activity at the center and expect to have a number of new tenants at Uptown Solon in the next few months,” he said. The same sentiment was echoed by Solon’s economic development director Angee Shaker in a Dec. 12 email to the CJN. “In talking with CBRE, the broker for the center, there are more prospective tenants wanting to move into the Uptown Solon shopping center,” she said “So once that space becomes available, I don’t believe it will be vacant for long. The property owner will also be making signage and landscaping improvements which will make the shopping center even more attractive.” Choose from the options below.  Uptown Solon, a shopping center built in 1999 at 6025 Kruse Drive in Solon, was sold for $10.1 million to United Growth, a San Francisco-based…   Choose from the CJN's informative e-newsletters.  We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Get the award-winning Cleveland Jewish News and our popular magazines delivered directly to you. Prices start at $65 per year. Subscribe today! Find a copy of the Cleveland Jewish News. View a list of stores and vendors. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: