Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     PHOENIX — A suspected thief was arrested this week on suspicion of stealing over $45,000 in fragrances from Ulta Beauty stores located throughout the Valley. Jose Acosta, 37, was taken into custody Wednesday in Mesa for a series of retail thefts that have occurred over the last year. Court records show the first theft was reported last June at an Ulta store in Gilbert. The suspect allegedly filled a pillowcase with $2,960 in fragrances from the store before fleeing. At least 10 more thefts at other Ulta stores were reported in the following months, all of which involved a suspect stealing thousands of dollars in fragrances. The biggest perfume bounty allegedly tied to the suspect was $8,400 stolen from an Ulta store in Phoenix. Each theft only took about a minute to complete on most occasions, investigators wrote in a report.  The total value of Acosta's perfume-related thefts was more than $45,000, but Ulta believes the suspect is allegedly responsible for stealing more than double that amount in merchandise from its stores. Acosta was booked into the Maricopa County jail and is facing several counts of organized retail theft. Catch up on the latest news and stories on our 12News YouTube playlist here. More ways to get 12News On your phone: Download the 12News app for the latest local breaking news straight to your phone. On your streaming device: Download 12News+ to your streaming device The free 12News+ app from 12News lets users stream live events — including daily newscasts like "Today in AZ" and "12 News" and our daily lifestyle program, "Arizona Midday"—on Roku and Amazon Fire TV. We are committed to serving all of the Valley's communities, because we live here, too. 12News is the Official Home of the Arizona Cardinals and the proud recipient of the 2018 Rocky Mountain Emmy Award for Overall Excellence. 12News+ showcases live video throughout the day for breaking news, local news, weather and even an occasional moment of Zen showcasing breathtaking sights from across Arizona. On social media: Find us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.