Trending Topics Follow BoLS




 Explore our other sites CyberConnect2 goes the extra mile for DBZ: Kakarot DLC, which will give players new villains and new rules that majorly up the stakes.  Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot is an adaptation of the main Dragon Ball Z story and more. From the Saiyan Saga to the Buu Saga, the game was developed by CyberConnect 2 and published by Bandai Namco and it’s just one of the best DBZ games out there when it comes to presentation. The DLC packs released eventually explored the Trunks and Bardock TV specials as well as the Battle of Gods and Resurrection F movies. Everything up until now has been the Dragon Ball Z parts of the series. The next DLC was teased at the end of the Bardock DLC trailer and confirmed the DLC will focus on the final arc of Dragon Ball. Bandai Namco has been slowly giving out info on the DLC and this is what we know currently. via Bandai Namco   For those who do not know, the final story arc of Dragon Ball is mostly known as “Trouble at the Tenkaichi Budokai.” Goku is all grown up and has entered the 23rd World Martial Arts Tournament after defeating King Piccolo and training with Kami. Goku lost the 21st & 22nd tournaments and is determined to finally become the world champion. Things take a turn for the worst though when Goku and friends discover the reincarnation of King Piccolo has entered with the sole intent of killing Goku in front of the world for revenge. Players will now get to re-live this arc in a spectacular fashion that this arc has truly never received. The story arc DLC is simply called “The 23rd World Tournament” and will have some of the most exciting moments of Dragon Ball. via Bandai Namco The two main fights we know of right now for Goku are the Tien and Piccolo matches. Goku lost the 22nd World Martial Arts Tournament due to a ring out when he hit the ground before Tien after hitting a car. It is considered one of the important battles because it shows just how far Goku has come since then. The final battle of course is Goku vs Piccolo Jr and will have players fighting for their lives. Piccolo Jr is no slouch and will even have a giant battle since he can grow into a giant.  The exciting thing is everything we have seen so far has Goku on the ground running mostly since he did not know how to fly at this point of the series. So it will be harder than the typical fights in Kakarot. Luckily, it is confirmed he will have some of the weirder techniques like the “Feet Kamehameha” to close distance. via Bandai Namco Speaking of exciting changes, Tien, or Tenshinhan, will be a playable character for the first time in Dragon Ball Z Kakarot. Before this DLC, he was an assist character you could take with you and also someone you could fight in some missions. Players will get to re-live their fight with their old idol Mercenary Tao, or Tao Pai Pai, at the World’s Martial Arts Tournament.  via Bandai Namco Tao is now a cyborg after kid Goku kicked a grenade he threw back at him. The fight is an emotional turning point and the final part of Tien’s arc from villain to a true friend. He used to look up to Tao and now has to face him and reject who he wanted to be before meeting Goku. Tien will have access to many of his signature moves with an image released showing his Tri-Beam, or Kikoho, attack. It is great to know though that the DLC will be more than just the parts Goku was a part of. Hopefully, we will get to see some of the other heroes’ fights in the tournament.  via Bandai Namco The DLC has something I think is really cool to show that this is in fact a tournament. Players will recall that the World Martial Arts Tournament has been a stage in many Dragon Ball fighting games over the years. Many of the games treat that location somewhat like an actual tournament area by letting players win by ring out. Well this time around, players will also have to keep themselves from being knocked down for too long. The DLC adds a countdown by the ref that players will have to do a mini-game to get up before being disqualified. Sort of like Punch-Out, but with more end-of-the-world type stakes.  via Bandai Namco The game will also still have ring-outs as a mechanic in the game. Goku can’t fly during this time frame, so it will be much harder to not ring out. There is no word yet though if the enemies have to deal with any of these mechanics. Just be careful during the fights and everything should be good.  via Bandai Namco This DLC is shaping up to be one of my favorite things to be added to Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot. All I can do is hope that the DLC lives up to how incredible that arc was in terms of presentation.  Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot is out on PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, Nintendo Switch, and PC.  Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot, DLC 5: The 23rd World Tournament TBD “I told you I’d win!” – Goku vs Piccolo Featured Videos 
New Bang! Supplement || Tabletop Spotlight
 
Everything New In Quests From the Infinite Staircase || Dungeons and Dragons
 
Admiral Thrawn Comes to Starwars Shatterpoint || Tabletop Spotlight
 Trending Topics 'Dead Island 2' Launch Trailer: The Bomb is Finally Gonna Blow Up Bell of Lost Souls℗ is a registered trademark of
BoLS Interactive LLC. All rights reserved.
 About Us | Contact Us Sr. Editor & Publisher: Larry Vela
Editor: Danni Button, Adam Harrison
Marketing Manager: Mars Garrett
Full Masthead & Authors Names, trademarks, and images copyright theirrespective owner. Click for details. Privacy, Terms of Use, Comment Rules