The Pokémon Company International announced the third batch of episodes of “Pokémon Ultimate Journeys: The Series,” the globally popular Pokémon animated series, premieres today exclusively on Netflix in the U.S.  In the newest episodes, Trainers can join Ash Ketchum and his Pikachu on their latest adventures in the Pokémon world and witness the duo’s legendary victory as they achieve the goal of becoming World Champion after 25 seasons of countless battles and challenging quests. For a sneak peek at the adventures leading up to Ash and Pikachu’s historic Pokémon World Coronation Series win, Trainers can watch a new trailer on the official Pokémon YouTube channel. Ahead of the new Pokémon animated series, “Pokémon Horizons: The Series,” Trainers are invited to send off Ash and his Pikachu in the final chapter of their adventures, which will conclude with a collection of special episodes to commemorate their 25-season journey. The availability of these future episodes will be announced at a later date. The series is described as follows: The stakes are higher than ever for Ash, Goh and Chloe as they advance toward their goals! As the Pokémon World Coronation Series tournament heats up, intensive training is in store for Ash, Pikachu and their Pokémon friends. Meanwhile, Goh embarks on a series of challenging trial missions to become a member of Project Mew. And as Chloe and Eevee learn about the different evolutionary paths that Eevee can take, will they be able to come to a decision about its future? Get ready for nonstop action, familiar faces from journeys past and more Pokémon discoveries to be made! Source: Press Release Josh has been an anime fan for nearly twenty years. In addition, he is a light novel author with over 25 books published as well as the owner of Meteora Press, his personal publishing label.

Anime and otaku culture isn't Josh's only area of expertise. He also has a Bachelor of Arts in Game Design and has created a handful of independent games along with a deep working knowledge of the gaming industry.  About   Contact Us   Work With Us   Podcast-Signup   Privacy Policy   Review Policy     
					Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.				