For the first time in four decades, Duke basketball will enter the NCAA Tournament without Mike Krzyzewski on the Blue Devils’ bench.  Now, first-year coach Jon Scheyer enters March Madness as the Blue Devils’ leader. A national champion as a player in 2010, Scheyer enters his first NCAA Tournament as a head coach after leading Duke to its 22nd ACC Tournament championship. The fifth-seeded Blue Devils (26-8) begin the post-Coach K era in the postseason with a first-round matchup against No. 12-seed Oral Roberts (30-4) on Thursday (7:10 p.m., CBS) in Orlando.  Here are some takeaways from what Scheyer had to say ahead of Duke’s open practice Wednesday at the Amway Center.  Following the Selection Show, Scheyer made it a point to chat with his players about March Madness and the hype surrounding the tournament.  “You're going to see a lot of opinions, predictions,” he said. “I've been on both ends of the spectrum, where one, they pick you to win the whole thing or they pick you to win where that doesn't happen or it's the opposite where nobody thinks you have a chance.” Scheyer went on to reference the 2010 national championship team, which he helped lead to a net-cutting finish in Indianapolis.  ROACH TALKS ORAL ROBERTS:What Duke basketball players had to say ahead of NCAA Tournament matchup with Oral Roberts TV INFO:How to watch Duke basketball vs. Oral Roberts on TV, live stream in First Round NCAA Tournament GAME PREDICTION:Duke basketball vs. Oral Roberts in NCAA Tournament 2023: Our March Madness prediction is in “I remember in 2010 we were the No. 1 seed and everybody said we were the first No. 1 seed that would be knocked out, and we ended up winning the whole thing,” Scheyer said.  “Really, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what's happened before. Any seed in the history of the tournament has lost, so nobody is safe going into this. You can't take anything for granted. You have to just focus on one game.” A national champion as a player and an assistant coach, Scheyer is no stranger to the NCAA Tournament. But what about how it feels to be a head coach for the first time in the Big Dance?  JOURNEY TO ACC TITLE:How Duke basketball's plan, process and belief led to an ACC Tournament title “I don't know that I feel different. I've been fortunate now, I think this is No.12 that I've been a part of, and each time it's so special,” Scheyer said.  “It's something I will never, ever, ever take for granted. … I just promised myself as I made this transition to being a head coach just to be in the moment fully this whole year. And that's when things weren't as good as I wanted them to be, that's when we are playing great, and that's in preparation for any game you want to play really well in.” Given the recent history of Oral Roberts and its run to the Sweet 16 in 2021, the Golden Eagles won’t be sneaking up on Duke this week.  “It's a matchup right away where you know the name, and there's a respect level there," Scheyer said. "Sometimes even though a team is really good, you may not know them, and you need to do more explaining. There's such a respect that our guys have for them right away." FINAL FOUR RETURN?Why Duke basketball can — and can't — reach March Madness Final Four under Jon Scheyer “We're understanding what they've done two years ago, having a core group back, adding more players from that team, the record that they have, the winning streak that they've been on. So very quickly, I think our guys felt and see what a tough game this is.” Oral Roberts is the only team in the nation to go undefeated in conference play this season, and the Golden Eagles won the Summit League Tournament championship by 34 points.  Staff writer Rodd Baxley can be reached at rbaxley@fayobserver.com or @RoddBaxley on Twitter.