Hunter Dickinson, who played the past three seasons at Michigan, is in the transfer portal. He will reportedly visit Kansas next. (Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast | AP)AP Syracuse transfer target Hunter Dickinson could be going from “Go Blue” to the ultimate blue blood. The 7-foot-1 center, who starred for the Michigan men’s basketball team the past three years and is currently in the transfer portal, will reportedly visit Kansas this week. Dickinson visited Georgetown and Maryland last weekend and talked with Syracuse University basketball coach Adrian Autry and his assistants over Zoom last week. He said on a podcast that he was planning to go home, to Alexandria, Virginia, anyway. A trip to Lawrence, Kansas, would be less convenient for him, but he’s apparently considering joining one of the top programs in college basketball history. The Kansas Rivals website Jayhawk Slant as well as the 247Sports Maryland site Inside MD Sports reported Dickinson would visit starting on Thursday. The Kansas City Star and The Athletic also reported on the visit. The 7-foot-1 Dickinson is the No. 1 player in various transfer portal rankings, no surprise given his production at Michigan. He averaged 18.5 points and nine rebounds per game last season as a senior. Kansas is college basketball’s all-time winningest program. The Jayhawks went 28-8 last season, won the Big 12 regular-season title (as they do most every year), and earned a No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament for the second straight season. They were unable to defend their national title, losing to Arkansas in the second round. Michigan failed to make the NCAA Tournament last season after reaching the Sweet 16 the year before and the Elite Eight in 2021, Dickinson’s freshman season. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices