Never to be outdone by their Italian neighbors, cooks in Provence have their own fragrant version of pesto. We first came across pistou in Marseille as a no-cook basil and garlic sauce stirred into a hearty bean soup. But variations abound, and yes, they also will mix it with pasta. In this pappardelle recipe from our book “Tuesday Nights Mediterranean,” which features weeknight-friendly meals from the region, we took inspiration from Richard Olney’s classic book “Lulu’s Provençal Table.” The sauce comes together quickly in a food processor and is redolent with the bold flavors of Southern France — peppery basil and ample garlic, of course, but also rich anchovies for an extra hit of umami. We finish the sauced pasta with toasted chili-spiked breadcrumbs (we prefer panko for its light, crisp texture) for subtle spiciness and a welcome textural contrast to the al dente noodles. Pappardelle is a wide, flat, ribbon-like noodle, often made with egg and shaped into nests before drying. If it’s not available, tagliatelle is the best substitute, followed by fettuccine. Don’t forget to reserve some of the cooking liquid before draining the pasta. Adding a small amount of the starchy water while tossing the anchovy-basil puree with the noodles helps create a silky sauce that coats the pappardelle. Pappardelle with Basil, Anchovy and Toasted Breadcrumbs Start to finish: 35 minutes Servings: 4 ½ cup plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided ½ cup panko breadcrumbs 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes Kosher salt and ground black pepper 12 ounces dried pappardelle pasta 2-ounce tin oil-packed anchovy fillets, drained (12 fillets) 3 medium garlic cloves, smashed and peeled 2 cups lightly packed fresh basil In a 10-inch skillet over medium, heat 2 tablespoons oil until shimmering. Add the panko, pepper flakes and ⅛ teaspoon salt, then cook, stirring often, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate. In a large pot, bring 4 quarts water to a boil. Stir in the pasta and 1 tablespoon salt, then cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente. Reserve about ¼ cup of the cooking water, then drain and return the pasta to the pot. Meanwhile, in a food processor, process the anchovies, garlic, and a pinch each of salt and black pepper to form a chunky paste, about 5 seconds. Scrape the bowl. Add the basil and pulse until finely chopped, 8 to 10 pulses, then scrape the bowl. With the machine running, drizzle in ½ cup oil, then process until well combined, 8 to 10 seconds. Add the anchovy-basil puree to the pasta and toss to combine, adding reserved pasta water as needed so the sauce coats the noodles. Serve sprinkled with the toasted breadcrumbs. ___ EDITOR’S NOTE: For more recipes, go to Christopher Kimball’s Milk Street at 177milkstreet.com/ap New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others.