Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		  South St. Paul fans cheer as their team takes to the ice before their game with Fergus Falls during a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul goalie Delaney Norman, right, and forward Lily Pachl block a shot by Fergus Falls forward Tyra Skjeret (43) during the first period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul forward Bailey Vesper, right, takes a shot on goal past Fergus Falls forward Vanessa Vaughn (4) during the first period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul defenseman Lily Pachl, right, tries to skate past Fergus Falls forward Lydia Johnson during the first period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  Fergus Falls forward Vanessa Vaughn's shot is blocked by South St. Paul goalie Delaney Norman during the first period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul forward Sarah Wincentsen, left, takes a shot on goal that is stopped by Fergus Falls goalie Annika Jyrkas during the second period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul forward Alyiah Danielson's shot is blocked by Fergus Falls goalie Annika Jyrkas as  defenseman Margaret Greenagel (9) tries to clear Danielson from the net during the second period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State GirlsÕ Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul goalie Delaney Norman, center, stops a shot by Fergus Falls forward Averie Tonneson, second from left, during the third period of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul forward Sarah Wincentsen, right, scores a goal past Fergus Falls goalie Annika Jyrkas (30) to win 1-0 in double overtime of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul forward Sarah Wincentsen celebrates after scoring the winning goal in double overtime of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul team celebrates after forward Sarah Wincentsen after scoring the winning goal in double overtime of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)  South St. Paul team celebrates after forward Sarah Wincentsen after scoring the winning goal in double overtime of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press) South St. Paul fans cheer as their team takes to the ice before their game with Fergus Falls during a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press) Buy images from this gallery Four periods weren’t enough to determine the final Class A girls hockey state semifinalist in the midst of a snowstorm late Wednesday night at Xcel Energy Center.That distinction required the heroics of Packers senior forward Sarah Wincentsen, who buried the game-winner in the second extra session in downtown St. Paul. Wincentsen wove through multiple Fergus Falls defenders via a nifty dangle, then went backhand to forehand to finally deliver the decisive blow in the marathon affair, giving South St. Paul a 1-0 victory.
GHS Class A State QF 
SARAH. WINCENTSEN. 
FOR. THE. WIN. 
South St. Paul advances to the semifinals against Warroad on Friday afternoon with 1-0 win over Fergus Falls in double overtime. pic.twitter.com/LQ5yhcfDcx
— YHH (@YouthHockeyHub) February 23, 2023

South St. Paul advances to Friday’s Class A semifinal back at the X, where it will face top-seeded Warroad. The Warriors are the defending Class A state champions. They haven’t lost to a Class A opponent this season and topped Albert Lea 15-1 on Wednesday.South St. Paul fell 5-0 to Warroad in last year’s semifinals.But the Packers are riding the current wave of momentum — which continued to flow with Wednesday’s victory. The Packers are 11-1 over their past 12 contests.South St. Paul controlled play for much of the night Wednesday, out-shooting the fifth-seeded Otters 42-19. The Packers — who remain a perennial Class A girls hockey power — were making their third state tournament appearance in the last four years. South St. Paul has been the No. 4 seed in each of those three trips.The Otters (22-5-1), meanwhile, were making their third trip to state in program history — and first since 2019.South St. Paul certainly looked like the team who had been there and done that for much of the night. That carried into the overtimes. The Packers generated numerous Grade A chances in the overtimes, but couldn’t bury the game-winning goal. Fergus Falls’ junior netminder Annika Jyrkas proved to be too difficult a code to crack.She shut the Packers (22-5-1) down at point blank on numerous occasions Wednesday, turning what easily could’ve been a 3-0 or 4-0 contest into a nail biter.But Jyrkas’ crease dominance didn’t deter the likes of Lily Pachl and Wincentsen from firing on net time and time again. Pachl finished with 15 shots — eight of which were on goal. Nine of Wincentsen’s 10 attempts were on target — including the game-winner.South St. Paul forward Sarah Wincentsen celebrates after scoring the winning goal in double overtime of a Class A Quarterfinal game of the State Girls Hockey Tournament at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul on Wednesday, Feb. 22, 2023. (Craig Lassig / Special to the Pioneer Press)The opposing goaltending put pressure on South St. Paul goalie Delaney Norman, who had to be equally clean to prevent Wednesday’s upset from occurring. Norman turned away a couple good looks from Fergus Falls in the second session and played a large role in the Packers’ penalty kill denying multiple Fergus Falls’ power-play attempts post-regulation.  That distinction required the heroics of Packers senior forward Sarah Wincentsen, who buried the game-winner in the second extra session in downtown St. Paul. Wincentsen wove through multiple Fergus Falls defenders via a nifty dangle, then went backhand to forehand to finally deliver the decisive blow in the marathon affair, giving South St. Paul a 1-0 victory. GHS Class A State QF  SARAH. WINCENTSEN.  FOR. THE. WIN.  South St. Paul advances to the semifinals against Warroad on Friday afternoon with 1-0 win over Fergus Falls in double overtime. pic.twitter.com/LQ5yhcfDcx — YHH (@YouthHockeyHub) February 23, 2023  South St. Paul advances to Friday’s Class A semifinal back at the X, where it will face top-seeded Warroad. The Warriors are the defending Class A state champions. They haven’t lost to a Class A opponent this season and topped Albert Lea 15-1 on Wednesday. South St. Paul fell 5-0 to Warroad in last year’s semifinals. But the Packers are riding the current wave of momentum — which continued to flow with Wednesday’s victory. The Packers are 11-1 over their past 12 contests. South St. Paul controlled play for much of the night Wednesday, out-shooting the fifth-seeded Otters 42-19. The Packers — who remain a perennial Class A girls hockey power — were making their third state tournament appearance in the last four years. South St. Paul has been the No. 4 seed in each of those three trips. The Otters (22-5-1), meanwhile, were making their third trip to state in program history — and first since 2019. South St. Paul certainly looked like the team who had been there and done that for much of the night. That carried into the overtimes. The Packers generated numerous Grade A chances in the overtimes, but couldn’t bury the game-winning goal. Fergus Falls’ junior netminder Annika Jyrkas proved to be too difficult a code to crack. She shut the Packers (22-5-1) down at point blank on numerous occasions Wednesday, turning what easily could’ve been a 3-0 or 4-0 contest into a nail biter. But Jyrkas’ crease dominance didn’t deter the likes of Lily Pachl and Wincentsen from firing on net time and time again. Pachl finished with 15 shots — eight of which were on goal. Nine of Wincentsen’s 10 attempts were on target — including the game-winner. The opposing goaltending put pressure on South St. Paul goalie Delaney Norman, who had to be equally clean to prevent Wednesday’s upset from occurring. Norman turned away a couple good looks from Fergus Falls in the second session and played a large role in the Packers’ penalty kill denying multiple Fergus Falls’ power-play attempts post-regulation.   Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group