GamesRadar's flagship digital games showcase will return on August 21 for our annual Gamescom broadcast 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Future Games Show @ Gamescom, our unmissable preview of 2024's most exciting Fall / Autumn games and beyond, will take place on Wednesday, Aug 21.

Our Gamescom event follows hot on the heels of our Summer Showcase broadcast, hosted by Roger Clark (Arthur Morgan, Red Dead Redemption 2) and Britt Baron (Tifa, Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth). The Summer Showcase 2024 is our most-watched show ever, reaching over 11 million live and launch weekend viewers.

Read on to find out more about the Future Games Show @ Gamescom, and catch up with key information from our recent Summer Showcase. The FGS Summer Showcase broadcast on Saturday, June 8, featuring over 50 games on PS5, Xbox, Switch, PC and VR platforms, with titles including Sacrifire, Detective Dotson, The Casting of Frank Stone and many, many more. 

Check out our FGS Steam page to wishlist games from the show, and support developers in what has been a truly difficult year for the industry. We have more info on all the games in the show across gamesradar.com, and on the FGS YT, TikTok and X channels - see links below.  You can watch the Future Games Show Summer Showcase on June 8, 2024 by subscribing to FGS's YouTube channel, GamesRadar's Twitch channel, our Facebook page,  Twitter, and the website, GamesRadar.com. 

Watch live:
Saturday, June 8
12pm PT / 3pm ET / 8pm BST / 9pm CEST You can also watch a selection of translated (via captions) feeds in Simplified Chinese, Korean, Japanese, French, German, Spanish, Polish, Portugese, Thai and English, by selecting your choice of live captions from our YouTube Live page. Simply choose the International Feed and make your choice of language.

We'll also add feeds for ASL and BSL translation which will be found on the FGS YouTube page on the Live tab.  The FGS Summer Showcase will be hosted by Roger Clark (Arthur, from Red Dead Redemption 2) and Britt Baron (Tifa, FFVII Rebirth, and Justine from Netflix's comedy drama wrestling show GLOW).

You can follow Britt Baron and Roger Clark on X / Twitter for more updates.  We're thrilled to welcome new streamers and creators to our FGS Co-Streamer program and all you need to do is sign up via this short form. We give all partners an exclusive asset pack, and the occasional bonus, including game codes subject to the titles in each show. You can watch a replay of the Future Games Show Summer Showcase via the YouTube link above. It was broadcast live on June 10, 2023 and was hosted by Yuri Lowenthal and Laura Bailey (Peter Parker and Mary-Jane Watson from Marvel’s Spider-Man). Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more   Working on an exciting new game? Join a roster of exciting titles that debuted in the Future Games Show, including Immortality, En Garde,, The Case of The Golden Idol, Dustborn,, LEGO Bricktales and many more.

If you're interested in being part of the show, you can fill out our updated FGS Game Nomination form or contact the FGS team directly via email:

Please note, nominations are already open for our FGS @Gamescom event on Aug 21. Share your nominations by July 12.

For editorial inquiries:
James Jarvis, Executive Producer (james.jarvis@futurenet.com)
Ben Malley, Producer (ben.malley@futurenet.com) For sponsorship Inquiries:
Melissa Makhmaltchi, Commercial Lead (US), melissa.makhmaltchi@futurenet.com
Kevin Stoddart, Commercial Lead (UK) kevin.stoddart@futurenet.com No title is too big – or too small – to take part: we're looking for cool, interesting games that will delight our audience.

Simply get in touch via our nomination form or through the email contacts above to be in consideration for our upcoming roster of digital showcase events.  You can check out all the games from each Future Games Show broadcast by visiting our Future Games Show Steam sale page which is updated after each event.

Developers and partners can get in touch via the contact addresses above to discuss how you can appear in the Future Games Show and on the event's Steam page.  The Future Games Show has reached over 350 million viewers since its debut in June 2020 with a mission to celebrate the most exciting, unusual and innovative upcoming games across all formats. 

With previous show partners including Warner Bros. Entertainment, Team17, Koch Media, Konami, Sega and many, many more, you can expect diverse game genres - from puzzlers, to shooters, and beaver-led post-apocalyptic strategy games - with a focus on new gameplay footage and fresh developer insight. 

The Future Games Show runs three shows a year, the Spring Showcase in March, a summer showcase event in June, and a Gamescom show in August. 2024 is shaping up as our most ambitious - and potentially surprising - year yet, with some tweaks to the show format, perhaps a new section or two, and lots more to reveal as we head nearer the summer.

We can't wait to partner with even more publishers and developers to share their exciting new games with the Future Games Show audience.  Here's everything you need to know about the Future Games Show so far, including previous hosts, contact details for how to pitch and appear in the show, plus more on how how to wishlist and play games from our event, via the Future Games Show Steam page. If you want to dig into all of the reveals across the history of the Future Games Show, you can check out a list of our ‘everything announced’ articles below:  GamesRadar Presents: Future Games Show (FGS) is our premier digital showcase event, which debuted in June 2020 at E3, originally hosted by Nolan North and Emily Rose from the Uncharted series. Our truly multiformat showcase has now debuted its ninth event - spanning PS5, PS4, Xbox Series X / S, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC and mobile platforms - focusing on the most exciting, quirky and original games of 2022 and beyond. The Future Games Show's mission is to help fans discover something new with our carefully curated selection of games. We focus on bringing you gameplay clips, developer walkthroughs, and world premieres. The Future Games Spring Showcase 2022 featured a Virtual Show Floor exhibition, containing games that will have playable Steam demos available right after the event. Also returning was the 'Ones to Watch' montage of exciting upcoming games and quirky indies.  The God of War stars Christopher Judge and Danielle Bisutti, aka Kratos and Freya, hosted the Future Games Show Powered by Mana on Wednesday, Aug 24.

The Future Games Show in June 2022 was hosted by Denise Gough and Doug Cockle from The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt. Our Spring Showcase event was broadcast in March 2022 and hosted by Ashly Burch (Aloy, Horizon Zero Dawn and Tina, Tiny Tina's Wonderlands) and John MacMillan (Varl, Horizon Zero Dawn).  In our Gamescom 2020 event, the hosts were the iconic pairing David Hayter and Debi Mae West, who voiced Solid Snake and Meryl Silverburgh respectively.   Hayter told GamesRadar: "Games… have changed. They’re no longer 8-bit side-scrollers, played under synthesized, electric-piano theme songs, but massive worlds of fantasy into which players can escape and explore for months at a time. In this era of the Foxdie Virus, we need these games more than ever. Which is why I’m teaming with my favourite former rookie, Meryl Silverburgh, to host the next episode of the Future Games Show. So grab your cardboard box, put on your stealth camo, and make sure that safety’s off… It’s showtime."  GamesRadar will bring you all the news and videos from the Future Games Show as the next-generation consoles enter their second wave of exciting new titles. FGS Content Director. Former GamesRadar+ EIC, GTAVoclock host, and PSM3 editor; with - *counts on fingers and toes* - 20 years editorial experience. Loves: spreadsheets, Hideo Kojima and GTA.  Acefast Desktop Power Station Z4 review: “I now use this charger for all gaming desk gadgets” Subscribe to SFX and save up to 50%! If you liked Fede Alvarez’s Alien: Romulus, you’ll love his seriously underrated horror series with a near perfect Rotten Tomatoes score GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 