By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  05:42 EDT, 13 January 2023   |  Updated:  06:03 EDT, 13 January 2023      48 View  comments  Gérard Depardieu looked in good spirts on Thursday as he stepped out at the premiere of his latest film Umami (Der Geschmack der kleinen Dinge) in Berlin, Germany.  The French actor, 74, wrapped up in a smart black coat and bright blue silk scarf as he posed for snaps at the event held at the in the city. Gerard's outing marks the first time he's since publicly since Juliette Binoche's claims in September that he 'punched a fist in her face' during a tense encounter between them.  Outing: Gérard Depardieu looked in good spirts on Thursday as he stepped out at the premiere of his latest film Umami (Der Geschmack der kleinen Dinge) in Berlin, Germany The film star teamed his coat and scarf with a dark grey ribbed waistcoat, navy jeans and black trainers.  He was seen waving to fans and posing with director Slony Sow, before they both later took to the stage. The film sees Gerard play a leading French chef who dedicates his life to seeking a flavour that has confounded him since being beaten by a bowl of noodles by a Japanese chef when he was younger.  In September, Juliette recalled an ugly confrontation she had with Gerard after he branded her 'nothing' in a scathing interview in 2010. Claims: Gerard's outing marks the first time he's since publicly since Juliette Binoche's claims in September that he 'punched a fist in her face' during a tense encounter between them The actress, 58, spoke about her tumultuous relationship with her fellow French actor in a new interview with The Guardian. Juliette claimed that the actor 'punched a fist in my face', yet it is believed the French star meant the phrase as an expression of shock, not a physical incident.  Juliette recalled how The Last Metro star publicly said she was 'absolutely nothing' and had nothing 'going for her'. Discussing their confrontation, Juliette said: 'About three months after he made those declarations, I bumped into him in the street and I said: "Gérard – why were you so mean to me?" He said: "Oh forget about it, I say stupid things. Don’t take it personally."  Premiere: The French actor, 74, wrapped up in a smart black coat and bright blue silk scarf as he posed for snaps at the event held at the in the city Style: The film star teamed his coat and scarf with a dark grey ribbed waistcoat, navy jeans and black trainers 'I told him: "OK but at the end of the day, I had to deal with it. And it’s really not cool." He said: "Well, I’m just upset with the directors you’re working with."'  'I think he was feeling jealous because I’d just received the award in Cannes. He was hurt because I had made him deal with too many things.' Revealing that they'd first met when she was 17 because Gerard was working with a family friend on the 1983 film Danton, she said: 'So he was such an important figure in my life. And then all these years later he… how do you say?' Claims: Juliette recalled an ugly confrontation she had with Gerard Depardieu after he branded her 'nothing' in a scathing interview in 2010 (pictured together in 2017) The publication reports that she then mimicked a fist to her face with the journalist asking if she meant a punch. Juliette responded: 'Yes! He punched a fist in my face. And it injured me.'  Gerard's representative told MailOnline that Juliette was using a French expression that 'means that she was stunned by Gérard's words.' They added: 'He never hit Juliette Binoche.' MailOnline contacted representatives for Juliette for comment at the time.  Candid: The actress, 58, spoke about her tumultuous relationship with her fellow French actor, 73, in a new interview with The Guardian (pictured in February 2022)  Feud: Gerard has previously made disparaging remarks about Juliette in 2010, calling her 'nothing' in an interview which she later confronted him about (pictured in 2021) Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group