Take full advantage of your console in 2024 with this list of the 25 best PS5 games 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Our best PS5 games list represents the GamesRadar+ team's recommendations for the must-play experiences on Sony's latest console. 2024 has been a fantastic year for new additions to this list, and we're nowhere near done yet.  Sony's console is home to many fantastic titles, with a strong offering of PS5 launch games kicking off the beginning of the new-gen line-up back in November 2020. And with some excellent PS5 exclusives arriving since the hardware launched, the library of games only gets stronger. Be it the best shooters or some of the best relaxing games, there is something for everyone to play here.  So, what are you waiting for? While we wait for the all exciting upcoming PS5 games heading our way, read on below to find our picks of the 25 best PS5 games you can play right now!  Release date: June 6, 2023
Developer / Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Included in PS Plus? No One of the best RPGs in years, Diablo 4 is beautiful chaos with excellent improvements on how it handles combat, gear, loot systems, and other elements. Seriously, it's never been so fun to create multiple characters and blast your way through dungeons.  Diablo 4 also has one of the best stories in the series. Lilith will have you questioning what is truly good and evil as you slay your way through Sanctuary.  Its open world is impressive, too, proving that Blizzard has plenty more to show off when it comes to the core Diablo experience.  Read our full Diablo 4 review, or get ahead with our Diablo 4 guide. Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more  Release date: April 28, 2021
Developer / Publisher: MiHoYo
Included in PS Plus? No, but free to play Inspired by Zelda: Breath of the Wild and free-to-play, MiHoYo's Genshin Impact has been growing and evolving since it was first released back in 2020. The PS5 port improved the visuals and performance, but it's really the ongoing support and updates provided by the developers that continue to make Genshin Impact one of the best PS5 games. It's an RPG with gacha elements, excellent worldbuilding, an elemental combat system, and just so much to see and do. Read our guide on all the must-know Genshin Impact tips and tricks that you need.  Release Date: June 22, 2023
Developer / Publisher: Square Enix
Included in PS Plus? No Final Fantasy is one of the best anime games ever made. And luckily, most of its sequels live up to the series' massive reputation and legacy. Final Fantasy 16 manages to recapture the series' spirit of reinvention by switching to combo-heavy melees instead of turn-based combat. That, combined with a world that you'll be eager to explore and a powerful story with endearing characters, make Final Fantasy 16 one of the series' greats. Read our full Final Fantasy 16 review, or get ahead with our comprehensive Final Fantasy 16 guide.   Release date: May 25, 2021
Developer: Hazelight
Publisher: EA
Included in PS Plus? No It's so fantastic to include one of the best co-op games on this list of must-plays. It Takes Two puts you and a friend - either online or locally - in the shoes of a husband and wife duo who have been magically turned into toys by their daughter in an attempt to save their marriage.  But that hides the fact that it also continually keeps you on your toes by switching up gameplay mechanics and control schemes with each section of the game. It's brilliant and easily one of the best puzzle games out there.  Read our full It Takes Two review.   Release date: November 12, 2020
Developer: Bluepoint Games
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? Yes Dying horribly at the hands of a soulless monster has never looked so good. The 2009 cult classic Demon's Souls has been completely remade for the 4K age and is one of the best-looking games on the new PS5. The motion capture, textures, and audio might all be new, but the hardcore action is utterly faithful to the original, offering the same brutal learning curve and sense of monumental achievement with every victory.  FromSoftware's original formula has been respected, but there are some new tweaks too, new items, armor, and weapons to covet, a change to the amount of healing grass you can carry, and new consumable Grains that offer buffs as you adventure.  Our complete Demon's Souls guide is here, or you can read our Demon's Souls review for more details!  Release Date: November 10, 2020
Developer: Ubisoft
Publisher: Ubisoft
Included in PS Plus? Yes Assassin's Creed Valhalla will stand as one of the best Assassin's Creed games, thanks to the complicated hero Eivor, the brutal combat, and the wealth of customization options.  There's rarely been a better match for the universe's lore than the Viking legends either, so you can expect some very interesting tangents as you explore, try to appease the pagan gods, and go on special dream quests. There's a reason the world has been obsessed with Vikings since they first went pillaging. Read our full Assassin's Creed Valhalla review, or prepare yourself for Viking fun with our Assassin's Creed Valhalla guide.  Release Date: November 12, 2020
Developer: Sumo Digital
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? Yes A perfect platformer packed with delights and surprises and absolutely stuffed with charm. In Sackboy: A Big Adventure our titular hero visits different planets - think themes like jungle or the sea floor - to foil the plans of the evil Vex (voiced by Richard E Grant). As well as looking like a party in a craft store the game is packed with ingenious level design. There's no part of this game that hasn't been built with buckets of love and a cheery smile, and it shows in every piece of fluff. Read our full Sackboy: A Big Adventure review.  Release Date: November 10, 2020
Developer: BlueTwelve Studio
Publisher: Annapurna Interactive
Included in PS Plus? No A game where you play as an adorable orange tabby cat shouldn't really need much more explanation than that, but Stray has more than just a cute protagonist. This is a wonderful platformer, with plenty of puzzling, all wrapped up in an alluring semi-post-apocalyptic story.  You'll wander the streets of a city abandoned by humans, leaving no one but robots behind and a whole lot of trash. There are some lovely narrative moments, glorious vistas, and just the right amount of head-scratching to make this a must-recommend. In fact, we consider Stray to be one of the best adventure games you can play on the PS5, so do check it out! Read our full Stray review.  Release Date: April 30, 2021
Developer: Housemarque
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? Yes This challenging roguelike looks - and feels - absolutely fantastic. Between the haptic feedback bringing the rain of Atropos to your very fingertips through the controller, or the visual splendor of neon against a monotone world, it's all utterly gorgeous - if a little bleak at times. The moment you die in Returnal, the loop begins again. Gain new upgrades, discover new weapons and alien tech, and work your way through the various biomes to reveal some of the truths behind the loops.  Read our full Returnal review.  Release date: January 27, 2023
Developer: Motive
Publisher: EA
Included in PS Plus? No Whether Dead Space (aka one of the best sci-fi games ever made) actually needed a remake or not, there's no denying that it's really really good. Developer Motive takes the original design of Dead Space and manages to overhaul it both in visuals and also expanding the story and its characters, which is why it more than deserves a place on this best PS5 games list. Read our full Dead Space Remake review and make sure that you bookmark our Dead Space Remake guide.   Release date: March  23, 2023
Developer / Publisher: Capcom
Included in PS Plus? No It was a gamble to remake one of the best Resident Evil games of all time, but thankfully the Resident Evil 4 Remake is a brilliant success. Capcom manages to retain everything that makes the original so pivotal, but brings it in line with more modern games, both in looks and feel. All the classic claustrophobic combat is there, along with the iconic characters, but it's now one of the best PS5 games too.  Read our full Resident Evil 4 Remake review, or head on over to our Resident Evil 4 Remake guide to make sure you don't miss anything.  Release Date: April 28, 2023
Developer: Respawn Entertainment
Publisher: EA
Included in PS Plus? No When we talk about the best Star Wars games, this entry has to be in the conversation. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor builds on its predecessor in almost every way, delivering an ambitious Jedi fantasy that's only downfall is occasionally in its pacing. Picking up five years after the last game, we rejoin Kal and BD-1 on an adventure that feels more ambitious, confident, and heartfelt than the first. Plus, this is a stunning game, which just heightens its prowess in combat and traversal.  Read our full Star Wars Jedi Survivor review, or make sure you don't miss a thing with our Star Wars Jedi Survivor walkthrough.  Release Date: August 20, 2021
Developer: Sucker Punch Productions
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? Yes The PS5 release of the Ghost of Tsushima is well worth diving into, even if you've played it through on PS4 as there are 4K graphics running at 60fps, wonderful DualSense features, and 3D Audio support. The Director's Cut itself adds the new Iki Island expansion, which is a fantastic new side-story set in an entirely fresh location. You'll learn more about hero Jin, meet new friends (and foes), and be able to engage with some new side content - including adorable critters.  Read our Ghost of Tsushima Director's Cut review or make the most out of your adventures as Jin Sakai with our Ghost of Tsushima guide.  Release Date: February 29, 2024
Developer/Publisher: Square Enix
Included in PS Plus? No The second instalment of this Final Fantasy 7 Remake trilogy is a definite must-play on PS5. It does well to build on what Final Fantasy 7 Remake did so well, but that was an opener, and this is the triumphant chorus that charts a beautiful path for what the final entry will bring.  What makes this particularly stand out to make Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth sit so high in our best PS5 games list is how much attention has been given to improving its side-content, making it the best partner to the compelling story that so many of us know and love to see reborn in the modern age. Read our full Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth review for our full thoughts.  Release Date: February 8, 2024
Developer: Arrowhead Game Studios
Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment
Included in PS Plus? No Helldivers 2 quickly earned a place high up on our best PS5 games list because it's easily one of the best multiplayer games PS5 gamers have access to. This console exclusive is a fantastic good time with solo, but it really comes to life when you engage in its cooperative gameplay. Failure is always funny, and success feels like elation in Arrowhead's shooter. With the developer adding new content all the time alongside really engaging with its thriving community, there's so much in Helldivers 2 to love.  Read our full Helldivers 2 review, or head on over to our Helldivers 2 guide for all the help you'll need with gear, missions and more.  Release Date: September 2, 2022
Developer: Naughty Dog
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? No Rebuilt using the studio's latest PS5 engine, the remake lets you relive or discover Joel and Ellie's journey with modernized mechanics, improved controls, and a complete overhaul of the game's graphics. If you've yet to experience the story of The Last of Us, you're in for a treat, and those revisiting the adventure get to experience it all over again with a version that makes the most of Sony's hardware. Read our full Last of Us Part 1 review and don't forget to check our Last of Us Part 1 guide for all the weapons, safe codes, and more you could ever need.  Release Date: December 10, 2020
Developer/Publisher: CD Projekt Red
Included in PS Plus? No It took four years, but Cyberpunk 2077 has now crested into the top 10 of our best PS5 games list. Who would have thought it? CD Projekt Red's epic open-world RPG transformed in 2023, with the free Update 2.0 and the paid-for Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty DLC completely overhauling the game for the better.  The clunky first experience we all had has been refined, and honestly, the RPG element of the title has never felt as smooth and complete as it does now. It's a stunning game on PS5 and definitely one to experience.  Read our full Cyberpunk 2077 review or dive into our comprehensive Cyberpunk 2077 guide to Night City.  Release Date: June 11, 2021
Developer: Insomniac Games
Publisher: Sony Interactive Studios
Included in PS Plus? Yes Not only is it the best Ratchet and Clank adventure yet, but it is also a powerful demonstration of what the PS5 can do. Doctor Nefarious has been at it again, ripping holes between dimensions. Ratchet and Clank are split up and enlist the help of fellow Lombax, Rivet, to help stitch the universe back together. Flying through time rifts is utterly seamless, with not a loading screen in sight, and the DualSense features are used brilliantly.  Read our full Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart review or check out our Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart guide for all the info you'll need.  Release Date: October 27, 2023
Developer: Remedy Entertainment
Publisher: Epic Games
Included in PS Plus? No Alan Wake 2 is a sequel it's been worth waiting 13 years for. Remedy's latest game is gorgeous, ambitious and really rather innovative, taking the studio's reputation for blending live-action and gameplay to the next level. Our old pal Alan Wake himself is back, after spending 13 years trapped in the Dark Place, and now he's helped by Saga Anderson, an FBI agent heading to Bright Falls to investigate a series of murders. The two storylines intertwine beautifully and it's an impressive game quite unlike any other. Read our full Alan Wake 2 review and make sure to head over to our Alan Wake 2 guide for all the secrets, weapon locations, and more.  Release Date: February 25, 2022
Developer: FromSoftware
Publisher: Bandai Namco
Included in PS Plus? No Elden Ring is one of those games where if you're in, you're in. This is the best game coming out of FromSoftware since the original Dark Souls, taking its particular brand of gameplay to an open world for the first time. It refines, it evolves, and it tweaks the formula to make sure that suffering in its very specific masochistic style has never been this much fun. It's also just one of the best action games ever made, with each new fight making you feel like a movie star when you defeat your foe. We couldn't ask for a better experience.  Read our full Elden Ring review or check out our Elden Ring guide for a comprehensive look at everything there is to do and see.  Release Date: September 14, 2021
Developer: Arkane Lyon
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Included in PS Plus? No Deathloop offers up a murderous puzzle box for players to break open and figure out. Deathloop is one of those rare games that surprises you, playing out nothing like any of us expected. Lose yourself trying to figure out the mystery of how to kill eight targets in a single day, where all move around the world of Black Reef living their lives - and rudely not just staying put so you can kill them. The more you experience the loop, the more you learn, and the more you understand about this strange little time-looping world.   Read our full Deathloop review or check out our complete Deathloop guide.  Release Date: September 6, 2023
Developer / Publisher: Larian Studios
Included in PS Plus? No Baldur's Gate 3 has taken the world by storm since releasing in 2023, with Larian Studios' RPG coming out of Early Access on PC and dropping in full on PS5 to great effect. This incredibly deep RPG gives you tonnes of freedom to tell your own story, with an excellent cast of characters to befriend, fight, and probably fall in love with over the course of this easily hundreds of hours-long experience.  Read our full Baldur's Gate 3 review and make sure you're getting the most out of this epic RPG with our Baldur's Gate 3 guide.  Release Date: October 20, 2023
Developer: Insomniac Games
Publisher: Sony Interactive 
Included in PS Plus? No Who would have thought that we would see one of the best Spider-Man games ever released in 2023? Marvel's Spider-Man 2 is packed with comic book adventure, heart and soul. It rejoins Spider-Men - Peter Parker and Miles Morales - with new powers and threats. The game manages the tricky task of delivering a story that Venom punches you right in the feels but is also a place that you want to escape to after a long day in the real world. Along with that sweet-swinging, Marvel's Spider-Man 2 pulls it all off so well in a sequel that's one to beat. Read our full Marvel's Spider-Man Miles 2 review, or make the most of NYC with our complete Marvel's Spider-Man 2 guide.  Release Date: February 18, 2022
Developer: Guerrilla Games
Publisher: Sony Interactive
Included in PS Plus? Yes Horizon Forbidden West is such a confident sequel. It's not reinventing the wheel - it's another game about saving a world filled with giant robot dinosaurs - but it doesn't have to. Aloy's story is just as compelling as the first game, but with more human elements, interesting new character additions, and tonnes more personality. It's got some of the best side quests in the gaming space right now too. Read our full Horizon Forbidden West review, or check out our comprehensive Horizon Forbidden West guide for truly surviving the post-post-apocalypse.  Release Date: November 9, 2022
Developer: Guerrilla Games
Publisher: Sony Interactive 
Included in PS Plus? No God of War Ragnarok is such a fitting end to the end of Kratos' Norse arc, along with Atreus, Mimir, and other returning pals. The story has serious narrative punch, there are some brilliant puzzles, and the combat is a fantastic evolution of the extremely satisfying mechanics from the last game too. This is the one to beat.  Read our full God of War Ragnarok review and don't forget to please Kratos by bookmarking our God of War Ragnarok guide. For more check out our list of the best PS5 accessories and read our breakdown of everything that you need to know about the PS5 Pro. Sam Loveridge is the Global Editor-in-Chief of GamesRadar, and joined the team in August 2017. Sam came to GamesRadar after working at TrustedReviews, Digital Spy, and Fandom, following the completion of an MA in Journalism. In her time, she's also had appearances on The Guardian, BBC, and more. Her experience has seen her cover console and PC games, along with gaming hardware, for a decade, and for GamesRadar, she's in charge of the site's overall direction, managing the team, and making sure it's the best it can be. Her gaming passions lie with weird simulation games, big open-world RPGs, and beautifully crafted indies. She plays across all platforms, and specializes in titles like Pokemon, Assassin's Creed, The Sims, and more. Basically, she loves all games that aren't sports or fighting titles! In her spare time, Sam likes to live like Stardew Valley by cooking and baking, growing vegetables, and enjoying life in the countryside. Terraria creator responds to backlash regarding 1.4.5 update, says developers "didn't remove anything" from the game: "We’re giving players more control" Fallout: New Vegas helped inspire Dishonored creator's new RPG hybrid: "We like the structure, the size, the humor, the possibilities" Black Myth: Wukong release time – the countdown to the new action RPG is on GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 