Great Britain won three modern pentathlon medals on Saturday Great Britain won gold in the men's modern pentathlon team event at the European Games. Joe Choong, Myles Pillage and Charles Brown finished first as Team GB earned a total of nine medals on day 11 in Poland. Choong, 28, added an individual silver medal to his Olympic and world titles. The performance secured a Paris 2024 Olympic quota place as did his partner Olivia Green's earlier bronze in the women's event. Choong finished second to Italian Giorgio Malan, who was 7.7 seconds ahead of him in the final laser run in a time of nine minutes, 58 secs. "For my last two [Olympic] Games, I managed to get that qualification spot the year before, which means you don't have to travel the world the year of the Games, doing every competition trying to chase the qualification points," said Choong. "It means you can really focus on which competitions you want and really get in a good block of training without the distraction and pressure of trying to get those points at the last minute." Ireland's Harrington wins lightweight gold Fellow Brits Pillage and Brown finished fourth and 11th respectively, meaning Team GB clinched gold with their combined score of 4,548 bettering their French and Italian challengers. Alice Sotero won the women's event with a world record 1,443 points to complete an Italian double in the individual events, with Spaniard Laura Heredia 14 points back and Green a further point behind  There were silvers for Britain's mixed relay triathlon team of Barclay Izzard, Connor Bentley, Sophie Alden and Sian Rainsley, and in the mixed team trap shooting for Lucy Hall and Matthew Coward-Holley. Another silver came courtesy of Ben Lane and Sean Vendy who werebeaten15-21 21-19 19-21 in the final of the badminton men's doubles by Danish pair Kim Astrup and Anders Skaarup Rasmussen. Badminton bronze medals were secured by Kirsty Gilmour in the women's singles and Lauren Smith and Marcus Ellis in the mixed doubles. Team GB flagbearer Joe Clarke took kayak bronze in the men's K1 canoe slalom. 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals If Verstappen wins title, who will be best of the rest? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.