Hurley, Berks, United Kingdom, 16 February, 2023 – LEO Pharma, a leader in medical dermatology, has appointed Kasper Künzel as Interim Vice President and General Manager for LEO Pharma UK and Ireland. Kasper is an established leader within LEO Pharma, having previously been Vice President, IPO Preparedness Office, at LEO Pharma in Denmark. Kasper brings over 17 years of pharmaceutical experience, previously taking on local and global leadership positions across LEO Pharma in functions including R&D, Finance and Commercial. Having first joined LEO Pharma in Denmark in a financial function, his previous roles include General Manager in South Korea, Vice President of Corporate Transformation, and Director of R&D Business Finance Discussing this appointment, Kasper commented, “I am delighted to join the LEO Pharma UK and Ireland team and continue to build on the company’s strong heritage in these markets. The UK and Ireland team are committed to the LEO Pharma values as a leader in medical dermatology, and I’m looking forward to all we can achieve together this year. My priorities in this new role will be to understand the key challenges and opportunities in the UK and Ireland – not only for LEO Pharma as a business, but also what our partners and patients are facing – to ensure informed and strategic decisions deliver positive outcomes for the dermatology community and the business. I firmly believe in being externally focussed, whilst also building high performance teams and nurturing talent development. We have the potential and ambition to be the preferred dermatology care partner, improving people’s lives around the world, and I believe we have an exciting future ahead.” Kasper is already in this interim role as of January 2023 and will remain in place until a permanent Vice President and General Manager for LEO Pharma UK and Ireland joins this business. 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.