According to a new report, discount and variety stores, namely dollar stores, are forging a path of aggressive expansion, some opening more than 1,000 new locations this year alone. (Abbey Oldham, MLive.com) STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. – At Party City in New Dorp, an 80% liquidation sale has cleared shelves and entirely emptied store inventory. Part of an overall nationwide brick-and-mortar shrinkage, the store closure is nothing new. Target recently closed four U.S. locations, citing declining foot traffic at stores throughout the country, and Walmart has already shuttered 20 stores across 12 states  in 2023 alone. But America’s alarming business shrinkage and swath of recent retail bankruptcies isn’t affecting every brand, In fact, according to a new report, several major companies are thriving under the inflationary pressure and have announced a batch of new openings in the coming year. “Despite the rising incidence of bankruptcies, year-to-date opening announcements are running comfortably above closing announcements,” noted a recent report from the real estate company JLL. “Among the top retail categories announcing openings were restaurants, particularly Quick Service Restaurants (QSRs) and fast casual concepts like McDonald’s ... Discount and variety stores, namely dollar stores, continue their annual aggressive expansion with 1,300 new locations announced so far this year.” Dollar General led the group, the report noted, announcing 1,050 new stores. And discount chains like Burlington and TJX Companies have also announced strong opening plans, scheduling 90 and 150 stores respectively. No exact locations were given in the report, and it’s unclear which section of the country will see the most retail growth this year. But here’s a look at the retailers that are leading this unexpected expansion, according to the report: If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices