
Home
 Don't miss out Subscribe to STAT+ today, for the best life sciences journalism in the industry By Ed Silverman  and Casey Ross Dec. 1, 2022 At a time when many Americans are clamoring for more transparency into prescription drug pricing, one key provider of that data is making it harder to access the information. A new venture called Merative — which was formed recently from the ashes of IBM’s Watson Health division — has decided it will no longer provide the media with pricing changes for specific medicines. This includes details such as separate doses and packaging on both current and historical prices. advertisement For years, Merative’s predecessors were among a few companies that have offered such data to journalists who track and research pricing changes at a time when the cost of prescription medicines has become a hotly contested pocketbook issue for people across the U.S. The data has spurred a number of news stories that helped explain behind-the-scenes price hikes taken by countless drug companies. STAT+ Exclusive Story Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Monthly $39 Totals $468 per year Totals $468 per year Starter $30 for 3 months, then $39/month Then $39/month Annual $399 Save 15% Save 15% 11+ Users Custom Savings start at 25%! Savings start at 25%! 2-10 Users $300 Annually per user $300 Annually per user 
						Get unlimited access to award-winning journalism and exclusive events.					 Pharmalot Columnist, Senior Writer Ed Silverman, a senior writer and Pharmalot columnist at STAT, has been covering the pharmaceutical industry for nearly three decades. National Technology Correspondent Casey Ross covers the use of artificial intelligence in medicine and its underlying questions of safety, fairness, and privacy. drug pricing health tech Pharmaceuticals STAT+ 
					STAT encourages you to share your voice. We welcome your commentary, criticism, and expertise on our subscriber-only platform, STAT+ Connect
 To submit a correction request, please visit our Contact Us page. advertisement Reporting from the frontiers of health and medicine Company Account More