Oracle is introducing a new Oracle Utilities Network Management System feature to help utilities navigate the fast-evolving energy grid and rapidly expanding distributed energy resources (DERs). New automated grid management and built-in AI will enable utilities to better orchestrate and control DER and grid-edge devices, boost network visibility with real-time insights, and provide a unified user experience across multiple platforms, according to Oracle. New Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) alarm triggers also alert staff to critical network information so they can act faster to resolve issues and to commission points and devices quickly to optimize network performance. An Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS), Oracle Utilities NMS is designed to help utilities meet today’s needs and prepare for future needs by monitoring, managing, and effectively optimizing the grid from electric distribution to the edge of the grid. Used by six of the top 10 U.S. utilities, Oracle Utilities NMS supports more than 61 million customers. New features introduced include: “Distribution operators need an integrated ADMS platform that fully models distributed energy resources, expands automated grid management, improves customer service, and reduces costs across operations,” said Brad Harkavy, vice president of product, Oracle Energy and Water. “With new features—from stronger control over surging DERs and grid devices to more reliable confirmation of successful restoration efforts—the latest version of Oracle Utilities NMS is fueling grid evolution at scale. As a result, we are enabling dramatic improvements in system stability, efficiency, and safety while driving down operating costs with our focus on productized solutions.” Seamlessly integrated with Oracle Utilities Live Energy Connect, Oracle Utilities Flex SCADA module is delivered and supported within Oracle Utilities NMS. The latest version includes enhanced alarms to alert staff to critical information on the network and improved limits capabilities to support unlimited limit bands, hysteresis, and temporary limit overrides. Additionally, SCADA engineers can now commission SCADA points and devices faster to help optimize network performance and reduce operational cost. Flex SCADA gives utilities an integrated, real-time grid ADMS platform with a single user interface. It can easily integrate data from existing Distribution Automation, field, consumer and IoT devices, legacy SCADA platforms, DERs, and grid-edge sensor points across a wide array of communications protocols. With the offering, utilities get the core distribution SCADA capabilities required across medium and low voltage networks. For more information about this news, visit www.oracle.com.