




Shraddha Sharma

FXStreet


 Chainlink (LINK) has garnered investor interest during a lengthy accumulation phase but its revenue and fees have lately taken a hit. Crypto market educator Altcoin Sherpa suggests a Dollar-Cost Averaging strategy for investment, while ChainLinkGod advocates for a broader understanding of Chainlink's capabilities. Chainlink, a smart contract system built on the Ethereum blockchain, has been amassing investor interest during a prolonged accumulation phase.  Analyst Altcoin Sherpa noted on X that the LINK accumulation has spanned more than 500 days and might soon give way to an upward surge in price. Altcoin Sherpa advised investors to consider Dollar-Cost Averaging (DCA) in their investment in Chainlink, particularly in the price range of $5 to $7. At the time of writing, LINK is slightly outside the range at a price of $7.5 after minor daily gains. $LINK: 500+ days in accumulation and chop, this will fly 1 day. I think the best way to play this (for most investors) is to:

-DCA from $5-$7 (I know it's a huge range).
-Sit on this for as long as it takes and wait for the breakout of the range
-First bids could be $6.80ish pic.twitter.com/kQMS63m2Z5 The crypto influencer also calls it a waiting game for the anticipated breakout, which could materialize around $6.80. Crypto analyst Ali Martinez highlights that the total transaction volume by whales and institutional players has been on the rise. According to IntoTheBlock data, a combined 69% is held by large holders, including whales. Meanwhile, large LINK transactions worth $100,000 or more approached $150 million on Friday. Large transactions As the investor interest grows, a prominent Chainlink Community Ambassador, ChainLinkGod, took to X to advocate for a broader understanding of Chainlink's capabilities. He contended that referring to Chainlink simply as a "decentralized oracle network" is suboptimal as it limits its utility and falsely promotes it as a monolithic network. ChainLinkGod emphasized on Chainlink's decentralized network with a distributed architecture rather than it being a single large network. "So really, it’s more accurate to say that Chainlink is a platform for creating Web3 services powered by decentralized oracle network infrastructure, which can provide secure access to external data, trust-minimized off-chain computation, cross-chain interoperability, and bidirectional connectivity to external systems," he added. On Monday, Chainlink updated new platform integrations across seven chains that include Avalanche, Polygon and Ethereum. ⬡ Chainlink Adoption Update ⬡

This week, there were 9 integrations of 5 #Chainlink services across 7 different chains: @arbitrum, @avax, @BuildOnBase, @BNBCHAIN, @ethereum, @optimismFND, and @0xPolygon.

New integrations include @ArchlyFinance, @ArkhamIntel, @bullionlabs,… pic.twitter.com/jvlri54eI7 Over the past 30 days, LINK has seen a price growth of 20%, based on Token Terminal data. However, the coin seems to be facing challenges in the longer term after achieving an all-time high  at $52.70 in May 2021. LINK price revenue 180-day chart While Chainlink's price is far from the record high, the revenue figures and fees also don't paint an optimistic picture, giving a mixed near-term outlook.   
Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page. 
If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet.
FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted.
The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice. 
 Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page.  If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet. FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted. The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice.  Bitcoin trades around $58,000 on Monday, down 0.7% on the day and extending the consolidation phase between $57,000 and $62,000 seen in the past ten days. From a technical perspective, the bearish thesis still prevails as BTC struggles to overcome key resistance levels and momentum indicators look weak.  Smart contract blockchain Solana (SOL), a key competitor for Ethereum,has noted a 150% increase in its stablecoin supply, largely driven by increasing DeFi opportunities, liquidity and lending protocols and expansion of projects from Ethereum ecosystem to Solana.  Vitalik Buterin, co-creator of Ethereum, the largest altcoin in the crypto ecosystem, moved ETH to a crypto mixer, early on Monday. The mixer is known to effectively prevent malicious actors and protect user privacy.    Dogecoin, the largest meme coin in the crypto ecosystem noted a surge in whale wallet holdings. Data from on-chain intelligence tracker IntoTheBlock show a 50% increase in the count of wallet addresses holding over 10 billion DOGE.  Bitcoin (BTC) trades above $58,000 on Friday after after testing and failing to overcome the resistance level around $62,000 earlier in the week. The risk-on mood returned to markets this week, Marathon Digital added 4,141 BTC worth $249 million to its holdings and the US SEC approved a MicroStrategy leveraged ETF, potentially giving investors more exposure to Bitcoin.  Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.