When Netflix’s The Umbrella Academy returns for its fourth and final season, it won’t just have a new timeline, it’ll also bring some new blood to the cast. On Friday, Netflix announced its superhero drama added Nick Offerman, Megan Mullally, and David Cross to the cast. Offerman and Mullaly, who are married in real life, will play the characters Gene and Jean Thibideau. The pair are community college professors from New Mexico described as wearing sensible footwear and “suffer from the most extreme case of deja vu this timeline has ever seen.” Meanwhile, Cross will play a business owner named Sy Grossman, who Deadline says is “desperate to reconnect with his estranged daughter, who will stop at nothing to get her back.” The Umbrella Academy family is getting even bigger: welcome Nick Offerman, Megan Mullally and David Cross to the cast in the final season! pic.twitter.com/RtOEQHSG9b — Umbrella Academy (@UmbrellaAcad) February 25, 2023  All three actors have been fairly big names in the TV space for years, and each of them have (or will soon have) shown up in genre shows fairly recently. In addition to voicing Gayle in Bob’s Burgers, Mullally will be playing Alecto in Disney+’s adaptation of Percy Jackson & the Olympians, while Cross had a brief stint on FX’s What We Do in the Shadows and HBO’s Station Eleven. And Offerman recently became the talk of the town when he showed up as Bill in HBO’s adaptation of The Last of Us. And for those who watch that show, Deadline’s writeup of the news notes that Offerman’s performance as Bill is getting serious Emmy buzz. The fourth season of The Umbrella Academy is currently in production. The primary cast across the first three seasons—Elliot Page, Tom Hopper, Justin H. Min, Emmy Raver-Lampman, Aidan Gallagher, Ritu Arya, Robert Sheehan, David Castañeda, and Colm Feore—all return. At time of writing, the show’s final season doesn’t have a set release date. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who. 
Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire gives us a rare example of viewing the world of Star Wars through a critical lens.
         
          After months of silence, both DeMayo and Marvel are now going after each other in the court of public opinion.
         
          At D23 2024, io9 spoke with Mickey Mouse (for real) about Star Wars, theme parks, and more.
         
          Planning on suing Disney? Make sure you've never ever signed up for its streaming service. 
         
          This list of 8 includes standout new arrivals and imminent departures—plus a few titles with fresh interest thanks to pop culture of the moment.
         
          Concept art for the next entry in the wildly popular Disney franchise made its debut at the recent D23.
         We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2024 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved. Mode 
                Follow us
               Mode 
                Follow us
              