Latin superstar Karol G has signed with Interscope Records. Tuesday’s announcement comes months after the singer’s Mañana Será Bonito became the first Spanish-language album by a female artist to top the Billboard 200 albums chart. More from The Hollywood Reporter Universal Music Group Embraces AI "Soundscapes" With New Deal Interscope Partners With NFL for Career Day to Show Players What's Possible Off the Field Universal Music Group Chief Says Talks Are Underway With Streaming Giants Over Artist Pay “Mañana Será Bonito marked a new era for me that came with many unforgettable milestones. I’m continuously amazed at the support my fans give me, which motivates me to deliver the best of me, and I’m certain that this partnership with Interscope and their incredible team will help us continue building and making history. I’m thrilled to see what’s to come,” Karol G said in a statement. The Latin Grammy-winning artist signed to Universal Music Latin Entertainment in 2016. Interscope, which is also part of the Universal Music Group family, is the home to artists like Lady Gaga, Kendrick Lamar, Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo. Karol G, who is Colombian, has generated nearly 80 billion global music streams and launched hits like “Provenza” and TQG” with Shakira, “Mamiii” with Becky G, and “Bichota” and “Tusa” with Nicki Minaj. She is one of the rare artists who can sell out stadium shows, like Beyoncé and Taylor Swift, and will embark on her Mañana Será Bonito Stadium Tour in August. “Karol G is without a doubt one of the most powerful, creative and dynamic artists in the world,” said John Janick, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records. “We are thrilled to welcome her into the IGA family and look forward to working with her and her team on the next phase of her incredible career.” Karol G’s career has expanded outside of music, too: She voiced the character Chima in the 2021 animated film Koati and she will appear in the upcoming Netflix series Griselda opposite Sofia Vergara. “Our partnership with Karol and her team dates back to the beginning of her career, and it has been a thrilling journey filled with incredible music. She is simply one of the most exciting artists in popular music today, and we’re honored she has chosen to deepen her partnership with UMG for many more years to come,” said UMG chairman and CEO Lucian Grainge. Best of The Hollywood Reporter Harvey Weinstein's "Jane Doe 1" Victim Reveals Identity: "I'm Tired of Hiding" 'Awards Chatter' Podcast: 'Sopranos' Creator David Chase Finally Reveals What Happened to Tony (Exclusive) Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.