


Publisher - India Education news, Education in India, Global Education, Universities news, Colleges, Career Options, admission, jobs, examinations, Exam results, University News, Education News

 New Delhi : Unacademy, India’s largest learning platform* is proud to announce the top performers of NEET UG 2023 who have achieved exceptional success in the highly competitive medical entrance examination. These Learners, who have displayed remarkable dedication and perseverance, have secured top ranks in this prestigious exam, setting a new benchmark for excellence. More than 23,000 Learners have qualified for NEET UG 2023, showcasing the wide reach and impact of Unacademy’s comprehensive learning programs. Among the highlights of the results, 6 Learners have achieved ranks in the Top 100, while an impressive 54 Learners have secured ranks in the Top 1000. Additionally, 3 Learners have emerged as state toppers and 4 Learners have achieved top positions from category. A remarkable count of 21 Learners scoring 700+ further exemplify the exceptional achievements of Unacademy’s NEET UG Learners. Unacademy has supported Learners with comprehensive learning programs, and guidance from Top Educators to move closer to their dream of becoming a doctor. “We extend our heartfelt congratulations to the top performers of NEET UG 2023 from Unacademy. Their success is a testament to their unwavering dedication and the effectiveness of our holistic learning programs. We are immensely proud to have played a part in their incredible journey to becoming a doctor in the future,” said Gaurav Munjal, Co-founder & CEO of Unacademy “Unacademy remains committed to providing the best-in-class education to aspiring medical professionals and empowering them to achieve their dreams,” he added. Unacademy has been instrumental in helping numerous learners achieve their goals and secure top ranks in various competitive examinations. About Unacademy Group: Unacademy was founded by Gaurav Munjal, Hemesh Singh, and Roman Saini in 2015. Started as a YouTube channel by Gaurav Munjal in 2010, Unacademy is India’s largest learning platform with a growing network of 91,000+ registered Educators and over 99 million Learners. With education being imparted in over 14 Indian languages to Learners across 10,000 cities, Unacademy is changing the way India learns. Unacademy Group comprises of Unacademy, Graphy, UnacademyX, NextLevel, and Prepladder.    Prev Post				 SRM Valliammai Engineering College, Chennai signs MoU with 3i Infotech’s Business Unit – FutureTech Next Post  50 Let Pobedy nuclear icebreaker completed its summer-winter navigation  

				President Droupadi Murmu Welcomes Indian Foreign Service Officer Trainees			

  

				UPSC Releases Results for 2023 Combined Section Officers (Grade ‘B’)…			

  

				Ashok Kumar Singh takes over the charge of Director General, ESIC			

  

				Delhi-based women refugees from Pakistan tie rakhi to Union Commerce and Industry…			

 Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you.