Home » Press Release 
UNest, a leading fintech company that makes it easier than ever for parents to invest in their kids’ future, today announced a partnership with America’s leading audio company iHeartMedia. UNest will leverage iHeartMedia’s multiplatform capabilities and national reach to empower parents wanting to help their children with a strong financial head start and road map for the future.
 
“The opportunity to reach our audience of young parents on a national level is rarely available to fast-growing startups like UNest. That is why we are thrilled to join forces with the largest and most powerful audio platform in the country,” said Ksenia Yudina, founder and CEO of UNest. “UNest is a purpose-driven organization committed to changing the world for the better. Through this partnership we will reach millions of households that are looking for the guidance and tools to set their children on the path to financial success.”
 
The agreement between the two companies will allow UNest to leverage iHeartMedia’s expansive audio network which includes broadcast radio, podcast, digital, social, events and marketing. The partnership, successfully launched in six regional markets as part of a pilot program, is now rolling out nationwide. The campaign seeks to educate expectant and young parents about the solutions available to ensure their children experience financial security and freedom.
 
“We are always looking for more ways to bring value to our listeners and the communities we serve,” said Joe Robinson, President of Corporate Development and Ventures for iHeartMedia. “That’s why we’re excited to help build further brand awareness for UNest, a company whose mission is to champion a more inclusive financial system for Americans across the country.”
 
The partnership is a central part of UNest’s ongoing emphasis on increasing access for the 70% of Americans who lack awareness of tools to save and invest for major life milestones for their children. UNest’s app helps parents open tax-advantaged custodial accounts in less than five minutes. The money saved and invested in the account can be used by the parents for any child-related expenses such as college, a wedding, a first car or home.
 
Since its market launch in 2020 UNest has helped over 500,000 parents and kids build a lasting financial legacy for their families. Through the app, parents manage an advisor-guided portfolio that can include both traditional ETF investments alongside selected cryptocurrencies. Parents can also invest in green funds, invite friends and family to contribute to their child’s account, and earn rewards from over 150 brands including Nike, DoorDash, Haven Life and Disney+.
 
About UNest
 
UNest is a purpose-driven fintech company empowering parents to invest and save for their kids’ future. Since launching in February of 2020, UNest has helped tens of thousands of families give their children a financial head-start and road map. Opening a UNest Investment Account for Kids requires no paperwork and takes just five minutes to set up through its award-winning app. UNest leadership team includes senior team members from MoneyLion, Marqeta, and Capital Group. The North Hollywood company is backed by leading investors including Anthos, The Artemis Fund, Franklin Templeton, Altair Capital, Launchpad Capital, OneWay Ventures, Unlock Venture Partners, Northwestern Mutual Future Ventures, Bitfury, and NBA All-Star Baron Davis. UNest is supported by a roster of celebrity brand ambassadors, such as Laura Dern and Hannah Simone, who share in the company’s mission. UNest Securities LLC is a FINRA registered broker-dealer. To learn more visit www.unest.co.
 
About iHeartMedia
 
iHeartMedia, Inc. [Nasdaq: IHRT] is the leading audio media company in America, reaching over 90% of Americans every month. iHeart’s broadcast radio assets alone have more consumer reach in the U.S. than any other media outlet; twice the reach of the next largest broadcast radio company; and over four times the ad-enabled reach of the largest digital only audio service. iHeart is the largest podcast publisher according to Podtrac, with more downloads than the next two podcast publishers combined and has the number one social footprint among audio players, with seven times more followers than the next audio media brand, and the only fully integrated audio ad tech solution across broadcast, streaming and podcasts. The company continues to leverage its strong audience connection and unparalleled consumer reach to build new platforms, products and services. Visit iHeartMedia.com for more company information.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230110005320/en/