Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. Advisors Can Help Clients Invest for Their Kids Through New Wealthtender, UNest Partnership Technology > Marketing Technology 

By Jeff Berman
 


News



August 10, 2023 at 05:21 PM



Share & Print
 Wealthtender has teamed up with UNest, a fintech firm that helps families save and invest for their children, for the launch of UNest FinPro, the companies said Thursday. The new program offers advisors access to a dedicated UNest service team, educational webinars and bonus deposits for clients who open new UNest accounts. Advisors participating in the UNest FinPro program will also be featured in the UNest.co website’s new FinPro Find-an-Advisor Directory, based on the same online advisor directory from Wealthtender’s own digital marketing platform, the firms said. More than 300 advisors in the Wealthtender network will have early access to join the UNest FinPro program and the opportunity to be featured in the directory on UNest.co, the companies announced. UNest FinPro features an app that was designed to help families save for their children’s future, attract new clients and increase visibility online through the advisor directory, the companies said. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles Families opening a new UNest account with a UNest FinPro advisor will get a $25 reward deposited in their UNest investment account, according to the company. UNest FinPro, it says, will enable thousands of advisors serving millions of parents to choose from advisor-guided portfolios in Vanguard exchange-traded funds to help families fund Uniform Transfers to Minors Act accounts. UTMA custodial accounts are managed through the UNest app. Advisors looking to become part of the Wealthtender network can get details at its website. Photo: Shutterstock NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next