Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » Japan opens up e-visas to South Africans South African passport holders can  obtain e-visas for travel to Japan, making trips to this exciting destination even more appealing. Good news for SA! Travelling to Japan has become simpler and much more convenient for South African passport holders.  Japan has joined many other Asian countries that are eager to welcome tourists and visitors. Thus, it has decided that a number of nationalities (who are not visa-exempt) are now able to travel to that country with the new simplified electronic visa (e-visa).  Japan is a land of contrasts. From areas of pristine natural beauty to bustling metropolises, there is something interesting and intriguing around every corner. It is also known for its fascinating culture and unique tourist attractions.  The country is made up of four main large islands and many other small outlying ones. Local architecture, culture and gastronomy are sure to impress. Therefore Japan is a destination that should be on every bucket list. The country has made travel more convenient for more visitors by implementing a new e-visa system for select nationalities. Japan has introduced a new electronic visa system that allows eligible tourists to obtain a short-term visa for periods of up to 90 days. Additionally, the new e-visa system enables eligible travellers to obtain visas without the need to visit an embassy or consulate. Japan’s e-visa is an electronic visa that allows eligible applicants to visit for tourism purposes and short-term stays of up to 90 days. The e-visa is a single-entry visa. That said, eligible applicants who will enter Japan seven days or later from the day of application can apply for the e-visa. Nationals from select countries that are not subject to the visa exemption regime are eligible for Japan’s e-visas.  Passport holders from the following countries are eligible to apply for a Japanese e-visa: Japan’s e-visa is not available to applicants who have been convicted of a crime, have been deported or who hold dual Japanese nationality. According to Travelobiz applicants seeking multiple-entry visas or those who are not from one of the eligible countries are not eligible to apply for the Japan e-visa. ALSO READ: United Kingdom revokes visa-free travel agreement for THESE five countries CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ARTICLES BY LORNE PHILPOT Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! The Daily Lotto is a lottery game that guarantees a jackpot every day. Are you South Africa’s next big winner? Good luck! Orlando Pirates legend Benedict Tso Vilakazi has warned that the Buccaneers’ CAF CL journey might end at Friday. Friends and family of Reeva Steenkamp are remembering her on another birthday since her murder by boyfriend Oscar Pistorius in 2013. Missed an episode of Skeem Saam? No problem! Watch the latest episode of your favourite South African soapie here! Betway Premiership side Kaizer Chiefs are not resting. Amakhosi have reportedly sent an offer to buy a striker target for this season. Marshall Dlamini, the EFF secretary-general, will be the party’s chief whip in the National Assembly, replacing Floyd Shivambu.  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.