
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/04/07/iscs-offers-data-service-and-marketplace-to-its-members/   The platform allows search by properties for sale or lease and market research. The International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) announced ICSC Marketplaces IQ in partnership with Realtors Property Resource (RPR), a subsidiary of the National Association of Realtors. ICSC Marketplaces IQ is a research source that allows searches for properties either for lease or purchase, market research, and analysis. The new service, which is free for members, "aggregates information from 15 distinct data sources, including Brevitas, Biproxi, Crexi, Land Broker MLS, OfficeSpace.com, and TotalCommercial.com, to provide access to more than 800,000 active commercial real estate listings and 56 million off-market properties," as a press release said. "Marketplaces IQ is a resource to guide members' business strategies, allowing them to search on- and off-market properties, gather demographic, lifestyle, and behavior data, conduct investment analyses, and inform site selection utilizing nearly a billion Esri data points," the release continued. "Data available includes spending, sales volume, traffic counts, drive times, and tax information, and more." 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 They consist of 22 retail and 171 residential units. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
