By Harriet Alexander For Dailymail.com and James Franey, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.Com   Published:  12:44 EDT, 18 July 2023   |  Updated:  13:22 EDT, 18 July 2023      514 View  comments  Republicans running the House Oversight Committee's investigation into Hunter Biden say that an FBI agent told them the Joe Biden transition team was tipped off the night before Hunter's interview with investigators. The Committee is looking into whether officers delving into Hunter Biden's tax affairs and his lying about drug use on a gun permit gave the 53-year-old preferential treatment.  Two IRS whistleblowers - one anonymous, the other named Gary Shapley - have claimed that Hunter Biden was treated more leniently than ordinary Americans. On Monday, the Committee said in a lengthy tweet that an FBI agent who worked on the case agreed with Shapley that Hunter was given favorable treatment. 'The agent's testimony is sickening and reveals the lengths to which the DOJ is willing to go to cover up for the Bidens,' the Committee tweeted.  The special agent, who worked in the FBI's Wilmington field office, told committee staff in a transcribed interview on Monday that the Biden transition team were tipped off the night before the planned interview of Hunter Biden. 'This was not the original plan by the career agents, which frustrated their investigative efforts because people found out who didn't need to know,' the committee said. Democrats were quick to dismiss the agent's claim, saying it was common for the FBI and DOJ to disagree about how to proceed with an investigation.  Hunter Biden, seen on July 4, has been investigated over his tax affairs and a gun permit, in which he claimed he did not use drugs Shapley and his colleague said there had been a pattern of 'slow-walking investigative steps' and delaying enforcement actions in the months before the 2020 election, won by Joe Biden. It is unclear whether the conflict they describe amounts to internal disagreement about how to pursue the investigation or a pattern of interference and preferential treatment.  Department policy has long warned prosecutors to take care in charging cases with potential political overtones around the time of an election, to avoid influencing the outcome. Shapley will testify before the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday.  Shapley has already told the House Ways and Means Committee that U.S. Attorney David Weiss, who has overseen the years-long Hunter Biden probe, said he doesn't make the ultimate decision on charges.  Weiss, according to Shapley, also said he had been denied special counsel authority.  But Weiss denied Shapley's claims, saying he was given free rein to do what he wanted, and he never sought special counsel powers.  Gary Shapley has claimed that Hunter Biden was given preferential treatment by the Justice Department when they investigated him on tax fraud and gun permit crimes James Comer, a Republican representative for Kentucky, chairs the House Oversight Committee  The House Oversight Committee, led by James Comer, a Republican from Kentucky, said the FBI agent's testimony was shocking. They said the Biden transition team was given advance warning that Hunter Biden was about to be interviewed regarding his tax affairs and the gun charge, and Hunter then refused to speak to them. He was charged with possessing a handgun, a Colt Cobra .38 Special, for 11 days in October 2018 despite knowing he was a drug user.  Last month Hunter agreed a plea deal on both separate charges, and will appear in court at the end of this month.  'Today, our committee staff conducted a transcribed interview with a former FBI supervisory special agent assigned to the FBI's Wilmington office and the Biden criminal investigation,' the Committee tweeted. 'The agent CONFIRMED key portions of the IRS whistleblowers' testimony, including that both Secret Service headquarters and the Biden transition team were TIPPED OFF about the planned Hunter Biden interview. 'In fact, on the day of the Hunter Biden interview, FEDERAL AGENTS WERE TOLD TO STAND BY AND TO NOT APPROACH HUNTER BIDEN— they had to wait for his call. As a result of the change in plans, IRS and FBI criminal investigators never got to interview Hunter Biden as part of the investigation. 'The former FBI supervisory special agent told committee investigators he had never been told to wait outside to be contacted by the subject of an investigation. 'The agent's testimony is sickening and reveals the lengths to which the DOJ is willing to go to cover up for the Bidens. The Oversight Committee, along with the @JudiciaryGOP and @WaysandMeansGOP, will continue to seek the answers, transparency, and accountability that the American people demand and deserve.' Joe Biden is seen with his son, Hunter, on June 24. The president has always said, when asked about Hunter, that he is proud of him A Democrat source told DailyMail.com that the FBI agent's complaint was neither surprising nor revelatory, as FBI agents often disagreed with DoJ decisions. 'Based on a decade of experience with the Delaware U.S. Attorney's Office, the FBI agent never knew the Assistant US Attorneys in the office or U.S. Attorney Weiss to allow any political considerations to influence their prosecutorial decisions in any case,' the source said.  'The FBI agent acknowledged that it is routine for FBI agents and DOJ prosecutors to disagree about investigative steps and charging decisions, and in his 20 year career, he witnessed this happen frequently.  'The FBI agent expressed that in determining whether to seek a warrant, it is proper for prosecutors to consider additional considerations beyond whether probable cause exists in executing certain search warrants involving political figures, attorneys, or raising election year sensitivities, per DOJ policy.' Joe Biden, asked about his son, repeatedly replies that he is proud of him and his efforts to overcome his drug addiction.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group