UK Edition Hun Sen, the authoritarian prime minister of Cambodia, has stepped down after 38 years of uninterrupted power in favour of his eldest son, a general educated in Britain and America who already serves as commander of the country’s army. Hun Manet, 45, was elected prime minister today by 123 of Cambodia’s 125 members of parliament after an election last month that featured the arrest and imprisonment of opposition leaders and was denounced by independent monitors as unfair. The new cabinet contains numerous ministers who are related to Hun Sen, including his youngest son, Hun Many, 40, who will serve as minister of the civil service. “A clan which rules by force rather than consent is renewing itself,” Sam Rainsy, an opposition leader in self-imposed exile, wrote on Twitter. “The regime has become a North Korea-style hereditary dictatorship. Hun Manet’s succession as prime minister of Cambodia is a two-penny farce that would be amusing if a country’s fate was not at stake.” Hun Manet was born in 1977, when his father was a battalion commander for the Khmer Rouge, the Maoist revolutionary movement that killed two million people, a quarter of Cambodia’s population, after coming to power in 1975. Hun Sen fled after an internal purge and helped the invading Vietnamese to topple the Khmer Rouge. He became prime minister in 1985 and remained in power until today. Hun Manet graduated from the US Military Academy at West Point and has a master’s degree from New York University and a doctorate from Bristol University, both in economics. He rose rapidly through the ranks of the armed forces, as deputy chief bodyguard to his father, head of counter-terrorism and army commander. He also became head of the youth wing of his father’s ruling Cambodian People’s Party, which dominates the country’s politics. Hun Sen, 71, said in the past that he intended to remain in politics until the age of 90. His establishment of a political dynasty, however, represents an attempt at a stable transition of power that will allow him to retire in the confidence that his interests will be protected in his old age. During his time in power, Hun Sen’s Cambodia grew economically, but suffered high levels of corruption and suppression of political and civil rights. Diplomatically, he aligned his country with China, which provides aid and investment in infrastructure projects and is suspected of making plans to build a naval base on the south coast. Compared with his father, Hun Manet appears to be much more popular with the younger generation of Cambodians, with an active presence on Facebook, where he has 1.2 million followers. Yet he is unlikely to reform Cambodian politics and his father has said that if his son “fails to meet expectations” he will return to power. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.