Hong Kong’s flag carrier Cathay Pacific Airways has lost more than half of its senior pilots since late 2019, while some of its remaining captains have had their family lives upended after pay and benefits were slashed, an aircrew union has said. The Hong Kong Aircrew Officers Association on Tuesday said the airline had 3,840 pilots of all ranks in the fourth quarter of 2019 before the coronavirus pandemic struck, but only 2,417 by last month. The association, which represents Cathay pilots, said the number of captains more than halved from 1,410 to 678, while the first officer headcount dropped from 1,740 to 1,074. The number of second officers fell from 690 to 665. Association chairman Paul Weatherilt said about 1,800 pilots had left Cathay during the pandemic, while 400 had been recruited. In response, a Cathay spokeswoman said the attrition rate had normalised across all staff groups, including among pilots. “We are also pleased to welcome back some 250 Cathay pilots, including captains and first officers, to rejoin the airline,” she said. “We are on track with our comprehensive plan to recruit top talent to support our operations and drive our rebuilding efforts.” Cathay and its budget arm HK Express reached 50 per cent of pre-pandemic passenger capacity in March as the travel industry struggled with labour shortages. The association revealed the figures while saying serving pilots’ morale was low because of extensive pay cuts since 2020, and their grievances had led to slow taxiing incidents at the airport. “[We] want to do the job as professionally as possible, but [pilots] are very frustrated and morale is very low,” Weatherilt said. Cathay warned its pilots in an internal memo on April 21 against taxiing at “considerably slower speeds”, which it said had contributed to congestion at Hong Kong airport. It issued the warning after the Airport Authority alerted it to the problem. In the latest memo sent to pilots and seen by the Post, the airline said its review of data in the past four weeks showed a reduction in slow taxiing incidents, and it would follow up on the remaining occurrences if needed. In response to the pandemic, the airline revamped the calculation of pilots’ monthly salaries in October 2020, basing this on actual flight durations, including time spent taxiing, as opposed to distances flown in previous contracts. Cathay pilot Scott Lo* told the Post that some aircrew members also taxied at slow speed because under the new contracts they were paid every minute the wheels were still moving. “In the old days, if I was given 10 hours of work on that day, I would get 10 hours’ pay. But now we are only getting paid counting the time from when the wheels move and stop by the minute,” Lo said. “Just imagine, a minute of work is worth a few hundred dollars for captains. That’s a huge difference.” He added some pilots had seen their pay cut by 40 per cent under the new contracts, and there was no certainty in their salaries because when a flight was cancelled, they lost their flying time. Weatherilt said he had heard of instances where senior pilots had to move homes and remove their children from schools as housing, education and medical benefits shrank. Lee’s husband has worked for Cathay Pacific for more than two decades after the couple moved to Hong Kong from Europe and Australia in the late 1990s. “We have been hired on these terms and have put in decades [of work]. Our children are now in secondary school. You can’t just take the kids from an English-speaking school to a local school,” Lee argued. According to Lee, her husband’s monthly income could fluctuate by 50 per cent under the new pay system, in which ground tasks, such as training, would not qualify for flight-time pay when the captain’s trips were cancelled at the last minute. “I feel like the [base pay] is piling pressure on an already pressured deal, because you have uncertainty,” Lee said. She said she was forced to remove the older of her two daughters in middle-secondary grade from an international school at the end of last year amid rising school fees and the wish to maintain some extracurricular activities for both children. The family had also moved homes twice since 2020 from Wan Chai district to the outlying islands. Lee said her current rent was 70 per cent lower than her pre-pandemic mark. Lee said her husband was admitted to hospital last May after a sudden collapse. The contract signed in 2020 had also removed her husband’s repatriation package, replaced a housing allowance with a lump sum, and cancelled certain medical benefits. Another pilot, Joseph Yung*, said he had a hard time adjusting to the new pay arrangement. “You only get paid if you fly and the working hours assigned are not equivalent to the time the wheels move, causing a lot of people to quit,” Yung said, adding that those who preferred to be based in Hong Kong would still choose to work with Cathay. Weatherilt told the Post that to his knowledge, pilots’ housing allowances ranged from HK$14,000 (US$1,785) to HK$70,000 per month, according to rank. However, under the new contracts, the maximum amount was capped at HK$36,000 a month. The education allowance now stood at HK$100,000 a year per child, according to Weatherilt. Lee said: “There is a lot of guilt I think the pilots feel - of letting their families down, of not being able to provide for them as well, of how suddenly things turned despite the fact that they haven’t done anything wrong.” *Name changed at interviewee’s request