by Today's Trucking Trappers Transport has expanded its cold chain logistics business with the acquisition of refrigerated transporter Plett Trucking. Plett Trucking was founded in 1968 as Landmark Transfer, growing into a national transportation provider. The two Manitoba-based companies have worked together since the 1990s. Plett adds 40 power units and 60 refrigerated trailers to the Trappers fleet. “Their strong track record of reliable refrigerated service and their extensive knowledge of the clients they serve, perfectly complement our existing operations and align with our long-term goals,” said Dan Omeniuk, CEO of Trappers Transport. “By integrating both operations, we will be able to provide an expanded range of services and provide even greater value to our customers. Together, we will continue to provide an exceptional customer experience, deliver real-time load transparency, and adhere to the highest food safety and security standards.” This is a moderated forum. Comments will no longer be published unless they are accompanied by a first and last name and a verifiable email address. (Today's Trucking will not publish or share the email address.) Profane language and content deemed to be libelous, racist, or threatening in nature will not be published under any circumstances. Comment *  Your Name * Your Email * Save my information for next time  

  Δ Congratulations to trappers transport for your recent expansion in your cold chain logistics Hi Dan
Congratulations to Trappers Transport on adding Plett Trucking to your fleet. It was a well kept secret from the drivers who work at Plett Trucking many were very disappointed and have already left Plett trucking to drive for different companies.  Had there been more transparency maybe these 2 companies might have been able to retain these experienced drivers. Business is Business and sadly it effects more then the bottom line it effects the drivers who create this bottom line for Trucking companies.  I am currently still working for Plett trucking it will be a wait and see what happens situation for me. Stay up to date on technology, regulations and trucking life   We have changed the way we showcase trucks and trailers available for sale – and now send the details right to your email inbox.   Simply click here to subscribe to our bi-weekly HD Hotlist for the listings.      We use cookies to make your website experience better. By accepting this notice and continuing to browse our website you confirm you accept our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy. read more >>