by Tiana May Published3 Apr 2023
 

Tags 
Chicago Passenger rail Union Pacific United States

 Union Pacific has begun the process of transferring its commuter rail services in Chicago to Metra. This transfer is expected to be complete by the first quarter of 2024 and is anticipated to deliver an improved passenger experience. Although most commuter rail services in Chicago are already operated by Metra, some routes are run by freight railroads under contract for Metra. This includes Union Pacific’s West Line to Elburn, Northwest Line to McHenry and Harvard, and North Line to Kenosha. In addition, BNSF operates the BNSF line to Aurora. The transfer of Union Pacifc’s commuter rail operation to Metra will include its train crew, as well as its mechanical, car cleaning, rolling stock maintenance, ticket sales and engineering services. “We greatly appreciate Metra’s collaboration in continuing to provide excellent and safe service to commuters during this transition. Thank you to our employees for your outstanding dedication and teamwork to provide uninterrupted commuter experience.” Union Pacific has operated its three commuter lines since 1995 and is currently paid 100 million USD each year to do so. Following this transfer, the freight railroad will continue to maintain the track and manage train movements on its lines. 
The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) has ordered an additional 41 rail cars from Hyundai Rotem. 
 
The SunRail commuter rail network has celebrated the official opening of the DeLand SunRail Station in Volusia County, Florida.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has appointed Ian Choudri as the programme's next Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
 
On Sunday, 11 August, Caltrain officially introduced the first of its new electric trains into regular service. 
 
This summer, Amtrak is investing 260 million USD in infrastructure improvements on the Northeast Corridor (NEC).
 
Norfolk Southern is investing 200 million USD to enhance the capacity of the 3B Corridor rail line in Alabama. 
 
Amtrak has launched a new programme to elevate the passenger experience at Washington Union Station, which it now manages.
 
PANYNJ has selected Stantec to lead the preliminary and final design for key elements of the Newark AirTrain Replacement Program. 
 
Hitachi Rail has partnered with ROBOZE to improve the production of railway spare parts with 3D printing technology.
 
Last month, the APTA Rail Conference discussed the importance of maintaining a positive public narrative to facilitate rail megaprojects.
 
The California State Transportation Agency and the California High-Speed Rail Authority have renewed an FRA agreement to expedite environmental reviews.
 
NJ TRANSIT’s Board of Directors has approved the purchase of 36 additional Multilevel III rail cars from Alstom.
 
The MBTA has approved Keolis' plan to operate battery-electric trains on the Fairmount Commuter Rail Line.
 
The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) has contracted Hitachi Rail to supply new trains on the Market-Frankford Line.
 
Amtrak and key project partners have marked the start of the Susquehanna River Rail Bridge Project in Northeast Maryland. 
 
Union leaders and elected officials have signed agreements to deliver the High Desert Corridor (HDC) High-Speed Rail Project in California.
 
Amtrak has published renderings of the West Baltimore MARC Station that will be built as part of the Frederick Douglass Tunnel Program.
 
The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has announced 153 million USD in funding to improve the US intercity passenger rail network.
 
The Omaha Streetcar Authority has selected CAF to supply the trams for the city's new tram network project. 
 
The Biden-Harris Administration has awarded 11 billion USD in grants and financing for the Hudson River Tunnel Project. 
 
The South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA) has launched a new Tri-Rail express train service from 1 July.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has contracted SYSTRA | TYPSA to design the track and overhead electrical systems for its initial route.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has cleared the final environmental milestone for its route between San Francisco and Los Angeles.
 
Gabriel J. Lopez-Bernal, President of Icomera North America discusses strategies for US rail operators to retain and increase passenger numbers.
 
The APTA Rail Conference addressed safety concerns for US rail networks and explored how operators are responding to these challenges.
 
Amtrak has released its fiscal year 2023 Sustainability report, detailing its progress towards net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045.
 
At the APTA Rail Conference, Gabriel J. Lopez-Bernal, President of Icomera North America spoke with us about optimising investments in rail.
 
The Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) has announced that advance construction work is set to begin on its Red Line Extension this summer. 
 
Amtrak has invested 20.8 million USD to complete significant accessibility improvements at several Bay Area stations in Califonia.
 
During a recent webinar, the High-Speed Rail Alliance invited Paul Lewis from DB E.C.O. to discuss the systemic cost problem for rail in the US.
 
The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has announced over 2 billion USD in funding for projects on the Northeast Corridor (NEC).
 
New York's MTA has completed a multi-year modernisation project at the Metro-North Railroad's Croton-on-Hudson hub.
 
Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) has commenced the testing phase for its Silver Line trains, manufactured by Stadler.
 
Amtrak has issued two RFIs to support its delivery of high-speed Wi-Fi connectivity along the 450-mile Northeast Corridor (NEC).
 
Brightline West has selected Siemens Mobility as the preferred bidder to manufacture its high-speed trains.
 
Amtrak has provided an update on its plans for high-speed rail in the US, including a corridor between Dallas and Houston.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has released preliminary interior design renderings for the seating of its future trains.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has highlighted its progress in sustainability while delivering its electric high-speed rail line.
 
Earlier this week, Brightline West broke ground on its high-speed rail line. These images display its vision for the future train interiors.  
 
Brightline West has officially broken ground on its high-speed rail project to connect Las Vegas and Southern California. 
 
Caltrain's electric trains have completed integrated testing between San Francisco and San Jose in California.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has approved the release of a Request for Proposals (RFP) to procure its electric high-speed trains.
 
Amtrak has issued a Request for Information (RFI) for solutions that could help transform its rail fleet with zero-emission technologies. 
 
Chicago's commuter rail system, Metra, has announced a comprehensive list of construction projects planned for 2024.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has released new preliminary interior design renderings for its future train amenities. 
 
PANYNJ has launched PATH Forward: a two-year programme to provide enhanced services and infrastructure on New Jersey's PATH rail network. 
 
The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro) has completed tunnelling for the D Line Subway Extension Project.
 
Amtrak has awarded a 'Delivery Partner' contract to a team comprised of AECOM and Jacobs to support the Frederick Douglass Tunnel Program. 
 
The FRA has announced over 2.4 billion USD in Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) Program grants.
 
Caltrain has retired 32 diesel passenger cars ahead of the launch of its new electric fleet in autumn 2024.
 
Amtrak has begun a 122 million USD track maintenance project to renew the Harrisburg Line in Pennsylvania. 
 
The US Department of Transportation has awarded 900,000 USD to three agencies to enhance intercity passenger rail services.
 
Caltrain has successfully tested its electric trains and overhead wires between Redwood City and Mountain View for the first time.
 
Siemens Mobility has been selected to deliver 55 S200 high-floor light rail vehicles (LRVs) to Metro Transit in St. Louis. 
 
The Biden-Harris Administration has announced nearly 4 billion USD in federal support for 14 transit construction projects.
 
With federal funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, new passenger rail services are set to launch in Colorado. 
 
At a preview event, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is displaying its 8000 series rail cars manufactured by Hitachi Rail. 
 
Brightline has announced plans to open a new intercity rail station in the City of Stuart in Martin County, Florida. 
 
Amtrak has provided an update on the Frederick Douglass Tunnel Program, with initial demolition having begun in Baltimore. 
 
The US DOT's Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has announced 631 million USD in grants for transit agencies to buy new railcars. 
 
Metra has awarded a contract to Stadler to supply 16 battery-electric trains for operation in Chicago and the surrounding region.
 
The California State Transportation Agency (CalSTA) and Caltrans have contracted Stadler to supply six additional hydrogen trains.
 
US freight railroad company, Norfolk Southern has completed 1 billion USD in infrastructure upgrades throughout 2023. 
 
Amtrak has awarded a contract to Kiewit/J.F. Shea Joint Venture to build the new Frederick Douglass Tunnel in Baltimore.
 
AECOM has secured funding for a slew of major rail projects across the US from the Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail Grant Program.
 
Amtrak has announced plans to advance several key initiatives throughout 2024 as part of its goal to double annual ridership by 2040. 
 
Federal, state and local leaders recently gathered to celebrate the inauguration of the Northwest Phase II extension of light rail in Phoenix.
 
The US Department of Transportation has announced the provision of a 31.4 million USD loan to upgrade key freight rail lines in California. 
 
The US DOT has approved the allocation of 2.5 billion USD in private activity bonds for the Brightline West high-speed rail project.
 
Under Governor Kathy Hochul's direction, New York's MTA is set to initiate engineering work for the Interborough Express (IBX).
 
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) has announced that its Fleet of the Future project will be delivered millions of USD under budget.
 
Caltrain has finalised testing for three new electric trains, with each of the new units having completed a thousand miles of testing.
 
Network Rail Consulting has been awarded a contract to provide systems engineering services for California’s High-Speed Rail Program.
 
The South Florida Regional Transportation Authority is extending Tri-Rail services to MiamiCentral Station from 13 January.
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has released the shortlist of bidders to supply its new electric trains.
 
The San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA) will modernise the train control system for the city's Muni Metro network. 
 
Amtrak is calling on the public to contribute their ideas for the improvement of Chicago Union Station in Illinois.
 
Amtrak has issued a formal Request for Proposals (RFP) to railcar manufacturers to replace its existing Long Distance fleet.
 
Amtrak has awarded contracts to Flatiron/Herzog, AECOM and Fay Construction for the Susquehanna River Rail Bridge Replacement Program.
 
The US DOT's Federal Railroad Administration has announced 8.2bn USD in funding for high-speed rail and pipeline projects across the US. 
 
The US DOT has awarded 3 billion USD in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding to progress the Brightline West high-speed rail project.
 
The US Department of Transportation has awarded the California High-Speed Rail Authority almost 3.1 billion USD in funding.
 
Last week, Rail Live! addressed some of the major safety challenges associated with railway operations globally.
 
Siemens Mobility has been awarded a contract to supply up to 55 new light rail vehicles to Metro Transit for the St. Louis MetroLink network.  
 
In coordination with NJ TRANSIT, Amtrak has begun the procurement process for the Sawtooth Bridges Replacement Project.
 
Brightline has awarded a contract to ENSCO Rail to provide autonomous railway inspection technology for its expanded Florida network. 
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has agreed to construct a station connecting to Hollywood Burbank Airport.
 
Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) has contracted Alstom to modernise and replace its Skylink APM system.
 
MBTA has launched a Track Improvement Program that will eliminate all speed restrictions on its network by the end of 2024. 
 
The FRA has awarded nearly 10 billion USD to Amtrak for the modernisation of critical infrastructure on the Northeast Corridor (NEC).
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has released a RFQ for design services for track and OCS connecting Merced to Bakersfield. 
 
The California High-Speed Rail Authority has unveiled 3D modelling, sketches and virtual simulation designs of its future electric trains.
 
Amtrak has signed a service development agreement for the return of intercity passenger rail services between Baton Rouge and New Orleans.
 
Class I freight railroad company, CSX has expanded its partnership with Siemens Mobility to implement digital solutions for freight rail.
 
New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) has rolled out the first five R211 subway cars on the Staten Island Railway.
 
Chicago's commuter rail operator, Metra has been awarded a 169.3 million USD grant to purchase zero-emission, battery-powered trainsets.
 
Stadler has received an order to build four hydrogen-powered trains for the California State Transportation Agency (CalSTA) and Caltrans.
 
The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) will provide 197 million USD in funding to help transit agencies replace ageing passenger railcars.
 
The Sacramento Regional Transit District (SacRT) has ordered an additional eight S700 light rail vehicles (LRVs) from Siemens Mobility.
 
The LOSSAN Rail Corridor Agency has announced that Amtrak's Pacific Surfliner in Southern California is now powered by renewable diesel. 
 Please fill in the contact form opposite. A member of the team will be in touch shortly.  





 We'd love to send you the latest news and information from the world of Railway-News. Please tick the box if you agree to receive them.
 I agree to receive communications from Railway-News.
 For your peace of mind here is a link to our Privacy Policy.
 By submitting this form, you consent to allow Railway-News to store and process this information.
 
  We love trains. You love trains. Sign up to our weekly newsletter to have all the latest global industry news calling at your inbox.
 You’ll also get our quarterly eMagazine: more trains, but with a shiny cover! Find out what industry suppliers are up to and read in-depth editorials.
 




 I agree to receive communications from Railway-News.
 By subscribing you agree to our Privacy Policy.
 
