
  We asked Echo readers to name their favourite gym was in south Essex – and the results can now be revealed.
 
  Our competition celebrates the best of fitness, and the winners could not be more delighted to lift the trophy.
 
  Feelgood Fitness & Wellness Centre in Laindon, was the lucky recipient of this year’s award.
 
  Owner Aaron Tyler provides a training and fitness programme to suit clients of all levels.
 
  “We are thrilled as a small business to have won the Echo’s favourite award for the best gym in Basildon.
 
  “We would like to thank our members for taking the time to vote for us, knowing that they are as proud of the club as we are, is very assuring.”
 
Well deserved - gym owner Aaron  (Image: Feelgood Fitness)
 
  The team pride themselves on being an inclusive club with members ages ranging from 14 to 91 years of age, with all abilities and disabilities.
 
  “Feelgood Fitness has a professional, warm and welcoming atmosphere which shines through from the minute you walk in the door,” said Aaron.
 
  Everyone from Aaron, the owner, the instructors and the volunteers are always more than happy to help and support members.
 
  “We are different from other clubs as we offer so much more. Whether it’s working with people who have had strokes, heart attacks, cerebral palsy, autism, or other types of rehabilitation. All members are able to feel safe and secure and well looked after within the club,” said Aaron.
 
Fighting fit - classes to suit all abilities  (Image: Feelgood Fitness)
 
  The Your Favourite Gym competition launched in paper and online back on the 2 January.
 
  We asked our readers to nominate their favourite gym then the place with the most nominations went through to the voting stage of the competition.
 
  From the 23 January for four weeks, readers were invited to complete a vote form and send it in.
 
  Feelgood Fitness & Wellness Centre is located at Unit 4 and 5 Daniel’s Farm, Wash Road, Laindon, Basildon SS15 4AZ.
 
  Visit www.fgfltd.co.uk and search “Feelgood Wellness Centre” on Facebook for updates.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.