Chief technology officer at Unit4, overseeing the development of intelligent software for service organizations.   Even standard ERP systems aren’t one size fits all—here are 5 tips for choosing a solution. Every business runs on a set of processes. These are so integral to your operations that they can be easy to overlook—but they can be vital to finding efficiencies, protecting your bottom line and satisfying customers. When choosing a new ERP system, businesses face a choice: to customize their ERP system to their existing processes or to select an out-of-the-box solution and adopt processes based on good practices for their industry. Standard ERP solutions are best suited to organizations with a certain set of priorities. One is speed to market: you can "hit the ground running," streamlining the implementation process by using the standard configurations provided by your vendor. The sooner you can use the system, the sooner your business benefits from the financial investment you’ve made in it. Standard configurations come with another advantage: smooth updates. Whenever your vendor makes upgrades to their ERP software, you can be confident they will be compatible with your system—allowing you to take advantage of new features without the risk of disruption to your operations. This makes out-of-the-box ERP systems attractive to businesses looking to secure a faster return on investment (ROI). For those facing pressure to protect their margins and keep pace in a competitive market, standard ERPs are quick fixes that are easy to maintain, allowing your business to maintain its focus on core revenue-driving activities. However, every standard ERP package comes with different features and capabilities. If you are looking to invest in one, here is my advice for finding the solution that best meets your needs. Follow these five steps to ensure you are choosing the right technology for you. Seek a vendor that specializes in your industry. The needs of your business will be led by where it sits on the broader market—and your ERP system should reflect this. For example, at Unit4, we provide different ERP software solutions for the professional services, public sector, nonprofit and higher education sectors in recognition of their differing goals and operating models. Your chosen vendor should have a deep knowledge of your sector based on its experience serving organizations like yours. This means its out-of-the-box ERP system will be designed for good practices and proven effective in real-world use. In addition, adopting tried-and-tested processes that align with your sector and simplify your operations will boost your overall chances for success. Your ERP platform serves as the foundation for your business’ core processes. However, it’s crucial to recognize that your organization may require specific functionality to adapt effectively to both external and internal change pressures. Consider choosing an ERP system that facilitates easy microservices integration with the core platform, enabling your organization to respond to evolving challenges and opportunities rapidly. By leveraging a flexible and adaptable ERP solution, you can empower your organization to navigate the dynamic business landscape with agility, resilience and success. Although an out-of-the-box ERP system can fit many of your processes, there may still be some areas that need adjusting. Management consultants often advise businesses to "think globally, act locally." In this case, use as much of the standard system as possible—but don’t be afraid to configure it when necessary. Look for a solution that allows business users to make changes without disruption, such as low code/no code. This means you can adapt to changing circumstances without bringing technical customization’s extensive cost and disruption. Implementing a new ERP system is a significant transformation for your business, and it is crucial to not only manage culture change but also ensure that the technology provides a great people experience. To facilitate a smooth transition, develop a clear change-management strategy that educates employees on the new system’s benefits and how to use it effectively. But also prioritize technology that is intuitive, user-friendly and designed with people in mind. This will make the culture change easier to manage, leading to higher employee satisfaction and productivity. Remember, your employees are the backbone of your organization. An excellent experience for them, focussing on their critical role rather than navigating complex tech, will ultimately contribute to the overall success of your ERP implementation and, I argue, the ongoing prosperity of your business. Choosing a standard ERP offering may come with a shift in mindset for your organization, but it can provide significant benefits in a dynamic business landscape. Embracing a simplified implementation process alongside good practices for your industry can offer opportunities to boost ROI, save time and resources, reduce risk and gain what you need to keep ahead of the competition. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 