Sun and clouds mixed. High 78F. Winds NNE at 10 to 20 mph..
                                 Clear skies. Low around 55F. Winds NNE at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 3:00 pm   Editor This story appeared in 'Meeting Minutes & More,' a weekly, six-page special section in the print editions of Friday's News-Gazette reported and written by Editor Jeff D'Alessio and designed by Managing Editor Niko Dugan. Click here to read an electronic version of this week's section. Click here to subscribe to The News-Gazette. CHAMPAIGN — Per the suggestion of board member Al Nudo, the Champaign-Urbana MTD has tweaked its travel policy, which now designates Willard as the “preferred” airport for all district-related flights. “We really need to utilize Willard more often. I wish the university would do that,” Nudo added of the Savoy-based, UI-owned airport. Nudo called the policy change “a good start” but encouraged Managing Director Karl Gnadt to report back in a year about a second piece of the revised policy, one that mandates travel “be accomplished in the most expedient and cost-efficient manner.” While employees may find a cheaper flight at an out-of-town or out-of-state airport, that option would mean the MTD footing the bill for mileage costs, possibly even overnight hotel stays, Nudo noted. That should be factored into the “cost-efficient” equation, he said. Gnadt estimated that 90 percent of all MTD air travel originates at Willard. Board members also signed off on renewing annual contracts with the Champaign and Urbana school districts: — Unit 4‘s contract calls for an increase of $4,545 — from $556,110 to $560,655. Based on nine months of service, that’s a monthly bill of $62,295. The service remains the same: round-trip transformation for students between 35 neighborhoods and Champaign’s two high schools and three middle schools. — District 116‘s contract calls for an increase of $20,250 — from $180,239 to $200,489, or $22,276.56 a month. The reason for the hefty rate hike: Historically, Gnadt told board members, Urbana’s cost was based on student enrollment, not hours of service provided, which led to the district not being compensated for any extra services. Switching to the hours model standardizes the contracts for both school districts. The other terms of Urbana’s contract remain the same — transporting middle and high schoolers to and from seven areas of Urbana. The new administrators set to take over at three area schools are plenty familiar to students and staff. Arcola Elementary, Danville High and Franklin STEAM Academy are each replacing longtime leaders with their proteges. The new administrators set to take over at three area schools are plenty familiar to students and staff. Arcola Elementary, Danville High and Franklin STEAM Academy are each replacing longtime leaders with their proteges. The lengthy list of no-nos for last month's Champaign show included “sugary colorful cereals” for breakfast; The Wall Street Journal in the star's dressing room; mushrooms, onions or pecans in any prepared food; Aquafina, Dasani “or similar reverse-osmosis water”; and armed security guards (“including guns, clubs or knives”). The lengthy list of no-nos for last month's Champaign show included “sugary colorful cereals” for breakfast; The Wall Street Journal in the star's dressing room; mushrooms, onions or pecans in any prepared food; Aquafina, Dasani “or similar reverse-osmosis water”; and armed security guards (“including guns, clubs or knives”). “I want to make it clear that I am very much in favor of the airport coming under the domain of the Mass Transit District," Bruce Hannon said. Added Al Nudo: “I think (the MTD) could do it and you’d do it a hell of a lot better. We’re in the transportation business.” “I want to make it clear that I am very much in favor of the airport coming under the domain of the Mass Transit District," Bruce Hannon said. Added Al Nudo: “I think (the MTD) could do it and you’d do it a hell of a lot better. We’re in the transportation business.” "If the university is going to manage the airport, it is obligated to provide regular and affordable air service for the university and to the market area," Alan Nudo writes. "If the university is going to manage the airport, it is obligated to provide regular and affordable air service for the university and to the market area," Alan Nudo writes. " 
 The News-Gazette mobile app brings you the latest local breaking news, updates, and more.  Read the News-Gazette on your mobile device just as it appears in print.
  
                            Pick the brain of veteran News-Gazette columnist Tom Kacich and veteran WDWS/WHMS radio personality Kathy Reiser.
                         
                            Have a question for 25-year Vermilion County beat writer Jennifer Bailey? Submit them here and she'll respond each Thursday.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: