Unit4 evolves procurement in local government with a new approach to contract management with a unified Source-to-Pay journey. With 3rd party spending increasing and the reliance on procured goods and services rising throughout the public sector, a robust procurement strategy is integral to delivering both economic and social value. This is especially true with inflation driving costs higher and energy costs spiralling, causing disruptions to the supply chain. To demonstrate the value that can be created by a solid procurement strategy, we’d like to focus on just one part of the procurement cycle that can pay dividends if properly addressed: end-to-end-contract management. Indeed, the recently updated National Procurement Strategy for Local Government In England 2022 explicitly highlights the importance of improving end-to-end management as a priority for local governments in the immediate future. Given the importance of contracts to your service delivery, there are clear advantages to be gained from effective contract lifecycle management and gaining control of end-to-end processes. A mature approach to this type of management can be especially valuable in understanding and controlling spending –, particularly for cash-strapped local governments – and is vital in improving relationships with key commercial partners to ensure a high level of service delivery. By optimising the processes involved in contract management and adopting contract lifecycle management, a local authority can gain control over every stage of the contracting process. From risk assessment through onboarding to contract renewal and termination, which in turn improves contract performance and value. Successful end-to-end management rests on the following four core principles: Contract lifecycle management software creates the foundations of a better approach to management by providing a centralized repository, automated processes and workflows, audit trail, data tracking and customized reporting capabilities that allow your procurement team to stay on top of every commercial agreement your organization makes. Unit4 has been creating enterprise software specially designed with the needs of government organizations and the public sector in mind for over 40 years. Our new Unit4 Source to Contract solution by Scanmarket incorporates a fully integrated Contract Lifecycle Management module that helps you to create contracts designed to maximize value over the life of an agreement, automate many processes through the use of templating and integrated data, and iterate on previous agreements to make continuous improvements. Find out more from Unit4 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ