
Home
 Don't miss out Subscribe to STAT+ today, for the best life sciences journalism in the industry By Brittany Trang  and Katie Palmer July 20, 2023 BOSTON — On a Friday morning in July, an internal medicine resident at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center stood up in front of a crowded room of fellow trainees and laid out a case for them to solve. A 39-year-old woman who had recently visited the hospital had felt pain in her left knee for several days, and had developed a fever. Zahir Kanjee, a hospitalist at Beth Israel, flashed the results of the patient’s labs on the screen, followed by an X-ray of her knee, which had fluid buildup around the joint. Kanjee tasked the residents with presenting their top four possible diagnoses for the patient’s condition, along with questions about the patient’s medical history and other examinations or tests they might pursue. advertisement But before they split into groups, he had one more announcement. “We’re going to give you this thing called GPT-4,” he said, “and you’re going to take a few minutes and you can use it however you want to see if it might help you.” STAT+ Exclusive Story Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Monthly $39 Totals $468 per year Totals $468 per year Starter $30 for 3 months, then $39/month Then $39/month Annual $399 Save 15% Save 15% 11+ Users Custom Savings start at 25%! Savings start at 25%! 2-10 Users $300 Annually per user $300 Annually per user 
						Get unlimited access to award-winning journalism and exclusive events.					 Health Tech Reporter Brittany Trang, Ph.D., is a health tech reporter at STAT. Follow her on Threads, Mastodon, and Bluesky. Health Tech Correspondent Katie Palmer covers telehealth, clinical artificial intelligence, and the health data economy — with an emphasis on the impacts of digital health care for patients, providers, and businesses. Artificial intelligence health tech hospitals patients 
					STAT encourages you to share your voice. We welcome your commentary, criticism, and expertise on our subscriber-only platform, STAT+ Connect
 To submit a correction request, please visit our Contact Us page. advertisement Reporting from the frontiers of health and medicine Company Account More