UnitedHealth Group said the company's clinicians will conduct more than 2.5 million in-home visits ... [+] this year, executives told analysts on April 14 during the company's first quarter earnings call. In this photo is the UnitedHealth health plan unit UnitedHealthcare logo on a laptop computer arranged in Hastings on Hudson, New York, U.S., on Saturday, Jan. 23, 2021. . Photographer: Tiffany Hagler-Geard/Bloomberg UnitedHealth Group clinicians will make more than 2.5 million visits to patients' homes this year as health insurers and the medical care providers they own intensify efforts to address social determinants of health.  The move by UnitedHealth Group comes as the healthcare industry takes unprecedented steps to address social determinants of health through new programs, business units and multi-billion-dollar acquisitions. UnitedHealth owns UnitedHealthcare, the nation’s largest health insurance company, and Optum, one of the nation’s largest medical care providers through its doctor practices, clinics, surgery centers and other outpatient care sites. Increasingly, health plans and the medical care providers they own are stressing medical care in the home where research shows care is not only less expensive but provides better health outcomes for patients. Clinicians entering a patient’s home can also evaluate some of the patient’s social determinants such as where they live and whether they have access to healthy foods and nutrition or are having mental health needs addressed. UnitedHealth president and chief operating officer Dirk McMahon said last week it will be one of the company’s top priorities to “effectively serve people in their homes” via “in-home clinical visits designed to identify care needs and help patients with other physical and social needs.” “This year we expect to make more than 2.5 million visits to patients' homes and we continue to expand the scope of the clinical services offered in that setting,” McMahon told analysts Friday during a call to discuss UnitedHealth’s first quarter earnings. Meanwhile, UnitedHealth’s rivals are investing billions of dollars in efforts to reach patients in their homes whether it be through telehealth or new technology platforms. CVS Health, for example, last month closed its $8 billion acquisition of Signify Health, bringing the drugstore giant in-home medical services from a national network of clinicians. Signify Health has a national network of more than 10,000 clinicians across all 50 states. These physicians, nurse practitioners and physician assistants make visits into patient homes “to identify a patient's clinical and social needs, and then connect them to appropriate follow-up care and community-based resources in order for the patient to have a more connected, effective care experience,” Signify and CVS have said. To control costs and improve health outcomes, care in the home has to be a priority, UnitedHealth executives said. “We have to more deeply and effectively serve people in their homes,” McMahon told analysts Friday morning. “Nearly all of the patients we'll add this year in fully accountable value-based relationships will have access to support through our home-based platform. Consumers value and benefit from services delivered in the home, and we've expanded our capabilities to serve that need.”