Supermarket News is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726. Supermarket News Staff | Aug 11, 2023 United Natural Foods, Inc. today announced the launch of UNFI Insights, a product developed with Crisp, the open data platform for the consumer goods industry. UNFI Insights, powered by Crisp, is designed to provide UNFI suppliers with comprehensive and cohesive sales, inventory, and deduction data across both natural and conventional channels. The new platform builds on the relationship formed in the summer of 2021 between the two companies, and now provides value-added insights directly through the MyUNFI.com supplier portal. Insights are designed to strengthen suppliers’ marketing and merchandising efforts and include store and category recommendations, fill rates, voids, as well as deduction and food waste dashboards. This will allow consumer packaged goods (CPG) companies to monitor their brands’ UNFI sales and inventory levels across their retail sales channels and manipulate and utilize UNFI data within their own business intelligence tools such as Tableau, Excel, and Power BI. It also works with cloud-based analytics tools from Google and Microsoft as well as Databricks and Snowflake. UNFI Insights is expected to enable suppliers to better manage their supply chain through on-hand inventory dashboards to avoid out-of-stocks. Additionally, since reducing food waste is a core value to both UNFI and Crisp, a significant effort was made to provide an actionable spoilage dashboard to monitor short-dated inventory, which should help brands identify which products are nearing their expiration date. “With hundreds of joint customers, the UNFI and Crisp strategic partnership enables both natural and conventional brands to collaborate more effectively with UNFI and their retail partners,” said Are Traasdahl, CEO and Founder, Crisp. “By removing data silos, data becomes more actionable, which should lead to brands increasing profitability while reducing food waste. We applaud UNFI’s leadership in facilitating data access and their commitment to supplier success.” CPG brands interested in learning more about UNFI Insights, Powered by Crisp, should access a webinar available at: https://www.gocrisp.com/unfi-insights-webinar.   More information about text formats Follow us: