Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. United Natural Foods, Inc. engages in the distribution of natural, organic, and specialty foods and non-food products. The firm operates through the following segments: Wholesale and Retail. The Wholesale segment is engaged in the national distribution of natural, organic, specialty, produce, and conventional grocery and non-food products, and providing retail services in the United States and Canada. The Retail segment derives revenues from the sale of groceries and other products at retail locations operated by company. It offers food and non food, frozen, perishables, bulk, body care products, and supplements. The company was founded by Michael S. Funk and Norman A. Cloutier in July 1976 and is headquartered in Providence, RI.  The market is cheering recent insider buys of the grocery and nonfood distributor. The grocery wholesaler delivered a disappointing earnings report and weak guidance. The company is bracing itself for one of its biggest full-year net losses ever. The two companies didn't do anything to help market sentiment early Tuesday. Shares of the grocery wholesaler fell on a profit decline in its earnings report. Is 51 times earnings too much to pay for a grocery stock? Survey says: Yes. Tiny changes in costs have an outsize effect upon this grocer's bottom line. UNFI earnings call for the period ending June 30, 2022. UNFI earnings call for the period ending March 31, 2022. UNFI earnings call for the period ending December 31, 2021. UNFI earnings call for the period ending September 30, 2021. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.