The RER  100’s total rental revenue was $35,409.9 million, topping $30 billion for the first time. The  2023 RER 100’s total rental revenue for 2022 revenue was a 22.9-percent  increase compared to 2021’s rental revenue of $28,813.7 million, the largest percentage  year-over-year increase since the list jumped 25 percent in 2000 compared to 1999.      The  top 10 of this year’s RER 100 was comparable, with the 10  largest posting $26,733.8 million, a 24.3-percent year-over year increase  compared to the previous year’s total of $$21,505.7 million. For the top 10, it  also was the largest  increase since the year 2000. The RER 100  listing covers North America-based rental companies and primarily covers rental  revenue in North America. The two largest North American rental companies -- United  Rentals and Sunbelt Rentals -- also posted large year-over-year rental volume  increases. United Rentals became the first rental company to top $10 billion in  rental revenue with $10.116 billion, a 23.3-percent year-over-year hike. Sunbelt  also posted high-growth numbers, with $7.6 billion in rental revenue and a  26.7-percent rental volume increase. Third place goes  to Herc Rentals, which posted an even better 33.6-percent year-over-year  increase. Rounding out the top 10 were Home Depot Rentals, H&E Equipment  Rental Services (with a 31-percent rental volume jump), Maxim Crane Rental  Corp., BrandSafway, EquipmentShare, Sunstate Equipment Co., and Aggreko North  America. Eleven  companies from last year’s RER 100 were acquired, eight of which are not  on this year’s RER 100, including perennial top 10 company Ahern  Rentals. This year there are 11 new companies on the RER 100 ranging  from No. 8 to No. 100. Most RER 100 rental companies are reporting that their customers  were for the most part plenty busy with a lot of construction activity. And construction  will continue to be helped along by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which provides $1.5  billion over the next five years to advance environmental justice, spur  economic revitalization, and create jobs by cleaning up contaminated, polluted,  or hazardous brownfield properties. Yes, there are concerns about the costs of fuel, and some  inflation, but rental companies for the most part are strongly optimistic about  their prospects going forward. This is certainly not a blank check or a guaranteed ticket to paradise  for everybody. As has been discussed in these and other pages in recent years,  the difficulty in obtaining equipment has not been taken lightly. Part of the  reason some companies sold was the cost of acquiring equipment made it  difficult for them to keep their fleets replenished to the degree they needed.  Some acquirers were partially motivated by the need for inventory as much as  the quest for market share. Some rental companies passed up opportunities and  projects because they lacked the fleet required. Tom Showalter of Herc-U-Lift (No. 89), whose company grew its rental  revenue 41 percent year over year, summed it up well. “It was a good year,” he said. “Could  have been better if we could have gotten more equipment.” Of course, not everybody who struggled with the issue of obtaining  equipment grew that much. Despite the overall increase, some rental companies stayed  relatively flat or only posted small increases. But the majority of the RER  100 companies were pleased with their results even though equipment was hard to  obtain, qualified workers weren’t easy to find, and the costs of doing business  definitely increased. But whatever the external conditions, RER 100 companies also improve results because  of their own preparations and increasingly more sophisticated systems. They don’t  only do well because customers are calling. They  also do better because levels of service get better every year. To read the full 2023 RER 100, click here for the May 2023 digital edition of RER:  https://secure.viewer.zmags.com/publication/9ca3887d  Michael Roth has covered the equipment rental industry full time for RER since 1989 and has served as the magazine’s editor in chief since 1994. He has nearly 30 years experience as a professional journalist. Roth has visited hundreds of rental centers and industry manufacturers, written hundreds of feature stories for RER and thousands of news stories for the magazine and its electronic newsletter RER Reports. Roth has interviewed leading executives for most of the industry’s largest rental companies and manufacturers as well as hundreds of smaller independent companies. He has visited with and reported on rental companies and manufacturers in Europe, Central America and Asia as well as Mexico, Canada and the United States. Roth was co-founder of RER Reports, the industry’s first weekly newsletter, which began as a fax newsletter in 1996, and later became an online newsletter. Roth has spoken at conventions sponsored by the American Rental Association, Associated Equipment Distributors, California Rental Association and other industry events and has spoken before industry groups in several countries. He lives and works in Los Angeles when he’s not traveling to cover industry events.