ARSENAL will face Portuguese side Sporting Lisbon in the last 16 of the Europa League. Manchester United, meanwhile, have drawn Real Betis. The Red Devils booked their place in the last 16 with a dramatic 4-3 aggregate win over fellow European giants Barcelona. While Arsenal enjoyed a more serene route, sparing themselves the play-off round by winning their group prior to the World Cup. The Gunners' opponents Sporting Lisbon dropped out of the Champions League at the expense of Eintracht Frankfurt and Arsenal's bitter rivals Tottenham. They boast former Spur Marcus Edwards, who shone against his old side despite Sporting being knocked out. After coming third in their Champions League group, Sporting were forced to take on Danish side FC Midtjylland in the Europa play-off. They drew 1-1 in the first leg in Portugal, before an emphatic 4-0 victory in Denmark. United's opponents Real Betis, meanwhile, emphatically won Europa League Group C under the guidance of ex-Man City boss Manuel Pellegrini. They overcame Jose Mourinho's Roma in the process, as well as Ludogorets and HJK. FREE BETS AND SIGN UP DEALS - BEST NEW CUSTOMER OFFERS The first legs will take place on March 9, with the return fixtures a week later on March 16. Elsewhere in the draw, Italian giants Juventus landed German side Freiburg.  While Europa League specialists Sevilla will face Turkish outfit Fenerbahce. Roma were drawn with LaLiga side Real Sociedad, with Bundesliga surprise package Union Berlin taking on Belgian last 16 debutants Union Saint-Gilloise. Bayer Leverkusen take on Hungarians Ferencvaros, who will host their home leg at Puskas Arena, the venue that this year's final will be played at. While Shakhtar Donetsk face Dutch side Feyenoord. Meanwhile, in the Europa Conference League, West Ham will face Cypriot side AEK Larnaca. David Moyes' side reached the Europa League semi-finals last term, but are struggling in the Prem. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/