Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Ultra-low-cost carrier Frontier Airlines announced it would launch eight nonstop routes to Puerto Rico beginning May 2023.
                         The winter has not yet ended, but Frontier Airlines is already ramping up its route network. The US-based budget carrier will add eight direct routes between Puerto Rico and seven cities in the United States and Cancun, Mexico. The news comes as the airline sees a significant leisure travel demand across the Caribbean market.
                         Nonstop flights will be conducted to Luis Muñoz Marin International Airport (SJU) in Puerto Rico’s capital city San Juan from the following airports:
                         In addition, Frontier Airlines will offer a direct flight between Tampa International Airport (TPA) in the US and Puerto Rico’s northwest city of Aguadilla, as well as between Orlando International Airport (MCO) and Mercedita International Airport (PSE) in Ponce, Puerto Rico.
                         According to a statement by the airline, the new route expansion now brings the total number of nonstop flights to Puerto Rico to 19.
                         Commenting on the route expansion to Puerto Rico, Daniel Shurz, senior vice president, commercial, at Frontier Airlines, said,
                         “Puerto Rico is a hugely popular destination for leisure travelers as well as the large population of Puerto Ricans residing in the US who enjoy returning to the island to visit friends and family.”
                         The carrier will also start a one-stop flight to San Juan from Denver International Airport (DEN) via DFW beginning May 2023.
                         It is reasonable to assume that the airline will deploy Airbus A320 and Airbus A321 aircraft on the specified routes to Puerto Rico, though the airline has not explicitly stated this.
      Get all the latest aviation news for North America here.
                     Founded in 1994, low-cost airline Frontier has dramatically changed from its initial years as a Boeing 737 operator. The US carrier has now grown to a hefty fleet size of 121 all-Airbus aircraft with an average age of 4.9 years, according to Planespotters.net data.
                         The fleet consists of 94 Airbus A320s (82 A320neos and 12 A320-200s) and 27 Airbus A321 jets (six A321neos and 21 A321-200s).
                         The latest aircraft order by the airline was announced during the Dubai Airshow 2021 when Frontier Airlines ordered 91 A321neo additional aircraft having an existing order book of 143 aircraft.
                         Frontier Airlines is anticipated to have all aircraft from the order book in their possession by 2029, with some already delivered.
                         Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today.
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. This is a finalization of a multi-billion dollar discussion that started months ago. The airline will be one of a handful to fly all three Boeing 787 variants. It's unclear when the meeting will take place. The order is worth $10.1 billion! Condor's new Airbus A330neo was damaged by a loading vehicle less than one month into service. Today's decision marks a significant victory for the DOJ. 