Denmark striker Rasmus Hoijund joined Atalanta from Austrian side Sturm Graz last summer Manchester United have agreed a £72m deal to sign Denmark international striker Rasmus Hojlund from Serie A side Atalanta.  The 20-year-old will move to Old Trafford for a fee of £64m, plus a potential £8m in add-ons.  Hojlund joined Atalanta in August 2022 and scored 10 goals in 34 appearances last season. His United contract will be for five years, with the option of an additional season. Hojlund will be United manager Erik ten Hag's third signing of the summer after midfielder Mason Mount joined from Chelsea for £55m and Inter Milan goalkeeper Andre Onana was signed for £47.2m.  Although United had been attempting to keep the fee below £60m, Hojlund was Ten Hag's first choice for the striking position. Who is soon-to-be Red Devil Hojlund? United had distanced themselves from a move for Tottenham forward Harry Kane, having decided a deal for the England skipper would be too expensive and difficult to complete. Although there is still some work to do to conclude the Hojlund transfer, it is not anticipated personal terms will be a problem. It means Ten Hag gets his wish of having a forward in before the start of the season, with United feeling that in Mount, Onana and Hojlund, the bulk of their summer transfer business has been done. It takes their overall spend to a minimum £166.2m, with the potential to rise to £180m. Asked about Hojlund in a news conference before his side's final tour game against Borussia Dortmund in Las Vegas, Ten Hag said: "I can't talk about a player who is still under contract at another club." Ligue 1 champions Paris St-Germain were also reportedly interested Hojlund as a potential replacement for France captain Kylian Mbappe, whose immediate future is unclear. The Dane began his senior career at Copenhagen, making his Danish Superliga debut aged 17 in 2020, before switching to Austrian side Sturm Graz two years later.  Hojlund spent only six months in the Austrian Bundesliga after joining Sturm in January 2022, and scored a goal every other game, finding the net nine times in 17 starts. That impressive form led to his move to Atalanta for a reported £15m, 10 times what Sturm Graz had paid for him six months earlier.  He made his international debut in 2022 and has scored six goals in six games, all in qualifying for Euro 2024. Providing the transfer is completed in time, Hojlund could come into contention for United's final pre-season friendlies against Ligue 1 side Lens next Saturday at Old Trafford and Athletic Bilbao in Dublin on Sunday. United face Wolverhampton Wanderers at home in their opening 2023-24 Premier League fixture on Monday, 14 August at 20:00 BST.  Latest Manchester United news, analysis and fan views Get Man Utd news notifications Listen to the latest The Devils' Advocate podcast Our coverage of Manchester United is bigger and better than ever before - here's everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment Everything United - go straight to all the best content BBC Sport Premier League Manchester United official site Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive 'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' 'Hull overcomes Olympics setback for Women's Open bid' PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.