We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. Table of Contents Table of Contents Are you looking for an upgraded experience when flying United Airlines but you're not ready to shell out for first class just yet? United premium economy service, which is called Premium Plus, may be the right fit. With larger seats in a semi-separate cabin, complimentary alcohol and two free checked bags, it’s available on select long-haul international flights and some transcontinental domestic routes. Here’s what to expect with United Premium Plus and how to book it with MileagePlus miles. What is premium economy on United and what does it offer? While your exact United Premium Plus economy experience may vary depending on your route (the class of service is currently available on select long-haul international, premium transcontinental and Hawaii routes), there are still a few things you can count on no matter what. The United Premium Plus baggage allowance is two free checked bags, plus reserved overhead bin space for your carry-on. Regular economy seats don’t offer any free checked bags on domestic flights and only one checked bag on select international flights. You can also get a free checked bag (or two) if you hold certain United Airlines credit cards. More on that below.  Premium Plus passengers also get Premier Access, which offers dedicated airport check-in lines, exclusive security lanes at select airports, priority bag handling and priority boarding. Those flying in economy or Economy Plus do not get Premier Access benefits unless they have United elite status, Star Alliance Gold status, an eligible United credit card or have purchased the Premier Access add-on. Passengers flying in business class, first class or United Polaris also receive Premier Access. » Learn more: United elite status: What you need to know  United’s Premium Plus seats are up to 19 inches wide and feature a 38-inch seat pitch, providing up to 7 more inches of legroom than most standard economy and Economy Plus seats. Seats also recline 6 inches, meaning you have more room to spread out and get comfy.  Since the seats are bigger, there are also less seats per row compared to economy. As seen in the image above of United’s Boeing 777-200, the Premium Plus cabin has eight seats per row while the economy cabin has 10 seats per row. Note that depending on the plane, the number of seats per row may differ, but there will still be less seats per row in Premium Plus vs. economy. Premium Plus seats are closer to the front of the plane so you can get to your seat and off the plane faster, and each has an adjustable leg rest, footrest, power outlet and USB outlet. » Learn more: United Airlines seat selection: What to know With a Premium Plus ticket, you’ll also have access to discounted United Club passes when booking select long-haul international flights, so you can kick back and relax in style before, after or during a layover on long travel days.  Don’t worry about bringing your own technology for entertainment purposes: Seatback screens in Premium Plus are up to 13 inches (compared with the standard 9 inches). You’ll also get premium noise-reducing headphones and a Saks Fifth Avenue blanket and pillow on select long-haul international flights. Alcoholic beverages are free in Premium Plus. In regular economy, alcoholic drinks are only free on transatlantic flights, flights between the U.S. and some South American countries, and certain transpacific flights. United’s Premium Plus food choices are also different from those provided to economy passengers. On select long-haul international flights, there are upgraded dining options. On premium transcontinental routes, passengers get a complimentary hot entree, fruit and dessert. Example menu items may include chicken katsu or portobello mushroom and caramelized onion ravioli. » Learn more: United vs. American Airlines — which is best for you? It’s not as easy or straightforward to find a Premium Plus fare as it is to locate, say, a business or first class ticket. Start on United.com and enter your travel dates and destinations.  Make sure to choose “Premium economy” where you see the cabin class and, if you want to book an award ticket, choose “Book with miles.” Then, select “Find flights” to start the search. When the flight options populate, look under the premium economy column to see if a Premium Plus seat is available. You may encounter a ticket with the label “Mixed cabin.”  Some flights that include connections may not offer Premium Plus seating on all flight segments. It’s a good idea to look more closely at the ticket to view the seat type offered with the premium economy ticket. Select “Details” for any flight you’d like to view, and you will see the available seat type listed for each flight segment.  After choosing your flight, you’ll be able to select your seat choice as you complete the booking process. However, you can also preview the seats available by selecting “Seats,” which is right next to “Details.”  United’s economy offerings are divided into four ticket types:  Basic economy (the most restrictive).  Economy.  Economy Plus.  Premium Plus (premium economy).  So then what is United’s Economy Plus, and what’s the difference between Economy Plus and Premium Plus? » Learn more: United Premium Plus vs. Economy Plus: Does it make a difference? Premium Plus is United’s premium economy fare and comes with the perks mentioned above, including Premier Access, upgraded food, free alcoholic drinks, discounted United Club lounge access, baggage allowance, roomier seats in a separate cabin and enhanced entertainment options.  Economy Plus, on the other hand, is an economy seat with more legroom that’s located near the front of the economy cabin or by the exit row. Economy Plus is an option that you can purchase during or after booking a standard economy ticket. You can also purchase an annual Economy Plus subscription. If you’re a United elite member, you can select an Economy Plus seat for free when you buy a standard economy fare.  Worth noting, when you're in Economy Plus, you don't get a free checked bag. However, if you use a United-branded credit card, you can get your bag fees waived, as well as enjoy priority boarding and, depending on the card, even access the United Club airport lounges. Credit card options include:  on Chase's website on Chase's website on Chase's website on Chase's website $0 intro for the first year, then $95. $250. $525. $0. • 2 miles per $1 on United purchases. • 2 miles per $1 at restaurants and hotels (when booked directly with hotel). • 1 mile per $1 on all other purchases. • 3 miles per $1 on United purchases. • 2 miles per $1 at restaurants, select streaming services and all other travel. • 1 mile per $1 on all other purchases. • 4 miles per $1 on United purchases. • 2 miles per $1 at restaurants and all other travel purchases. • 1 mile per $1 on all other purchases. • 2 miles per $1 on United purchases, gas stations and local transit and commuting. • 1 mile per $1 on all other purchases. • First checked bag free for you and one companion on your reservation. • 2 United Club one-time passes each year. • Credit of up to $100 every four years for TSA PreCheck, Global Entry or NEXUS. • Priority boarding. • No foreign transaction fees. • First and second checked bag free for you and one companion on your reservation. • $125 United purchase credit per year (good on airfare). • Two 5,000-mile award flight credits per anniversary year. • Credit of up to $100 every four years for TSA PreCheck, Global Entry or NEXUS.  • Priority boarding. • No foreign transaction fees. • First and second checked bag free for you and one companion on your reservation. • Access to United Club airport lounges. • Credit of up to $100 every four years for TSA PreCheck, Global Entry or NEXUS.  • Priority boarding. • No foreign transaction fees. • No foreign transaction fees. Earn 50,000 bonus miles after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. Earn 60,000 bonus miles and 500 Premier qualifying points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. Earn 80,000 bonus miles after you spend $5,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. Earn 20,000 bonus miles after you spend $1,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. Plus, 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases. Learn more.   » Learn more: How to choose a seat on a plane Here’s how to get the most out of every Premium Plus award booking on United. Booking with miles is typically a great way to save money and get the best value out of points. In one search for flights from LAX to London, an economy ticket cost $2,288 for a refundable fare or 30,000 miles for a valuation of 7.6 cents per mile. A Premium Plus fare cost $2,714 or 56,600 miles for a valuation of 4.8 cents per mile. Since NerdWallet values United miles at 1.2 cents per mile, both of these tickets reflect a great use of miles. But ticket prices can vary greatly, so make sure to do the math before booking to see if you’re getting a good return on your mileage investment. Since United is a member of Star Alliance, you may be able to find a good deal on award flights when booking a United Premium Plus ticket using partner airline miles. You can search for United award availability using Avianca LifeMiles, Air Canada Aeroplan or Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer. If your flight includes multiple stops, the option to purchase a discounted lounge pass may come in handy to assuage the pain of long-haul international flights and extended layovers. You can purchase a pass during booking to guarantee access. United doesn’t publish a set award chart. Instead, mileage requirements for award flights are based on a variety of factors, including demand. So booking during off-peak times and seasons may provide you with a better deal. » Learn more: Which United credit card should you get? Hovering somewhere between business class and regular economy is United Airlines Premium Plus. It offers roomier seats in a separate cabin, free alcohol, upgraded meals, free checked bags and discounted United Club lounge access, but it may come at a cost when booking with miles. Additionally, flights that offer this class of service can be tricky to find. But if Premium Plus is available, it’s worth checking to see if you can score a good deal for long flights. United’s premium economy product is called Premium Plus. It is available on select transcontinental domestic routes and some long-haul international flights. Premium Plus seats are larger and in a separate cabin. When flying Premium Plus, passengers get enhanced food options, free alcoholic beverages, discounted United Club lounge access, Premier Access, additional baggage allowance and upgraded entertainment options. Yes, those flying in Premium Plus receive discounted access to United Club lounges. United doesn’t disclose the cost of lounge access for Premium Plus passengers, but the price of entry should be lower than the $59 United Club day pass. Unless it's an involuntary change imposed by United (e.g., oversold flight, canceled flight, flight change or inability to accommodate a passenger in a premium cabin), Premium Plus seats are nonrefundable if canceled more than 24 hours after booking. United’s premium economy product is called Premium Plus. It is available on select transcontinental domestic routes and some long-haul international flights. Premium Plus seats are larger and in a separate cabin. United’s premium economy product is called Premium Plus. It is available on select transcontinental domestic routes and some long-haul international flights. Premium Plus seats are larger and in a separate cabin. When flying Premium Plus, passengers get enhanced food options, free alcoholic beverages, discounted United Club lounge access, Premier Access, additional baggage allowance and upgraded entertainment options. When flying Premium Plus, passengers get enhanced food options, free alcoholic beverages, discounted United Club lounge access, Premier Access, additional baggage allowance and upgraded entertainment options. Yes, those flying in Premium Plus receive discounted access to United Club lounges. United doesn’t disclose the cost of lounge access for Premium Plus passengers, but the price of entry should be lower than the $59 United Club day pass. Yes, those flying in Premium Plus receive discounted access to United Club lounges. United doesn’t disclose the cost of lounge access for Premium Plus passengers, but the price of entry should be lower than the $59 United Club day pass. Unless it's an involuntary change imposed by United (e.g., oversold flight, canceled flight, flight change or inability to accommodate a passenger in a premium cabin), Premium Plus seats are nonrefundable if canceled more than 24 hours after booking. Unless it's an involuntary change imposed by United (e.g., oversold flight, canceled flight, flight change or inability to accommodate a passenger in a premium cabin), Premium Plus seats are nonrefundable if canceled more than 24 hours after booking. You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2024: Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card  Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve® Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card American Express® Gold Card Travel Dining Access over $400 annually in benefits value with the American Express® Gold Card on eligible dining and travel purchases. Learn more here. Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105