Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement You can also search for this author in PubMed
 Google Scholar
 For 100 years, people have dreamed of sending vast arrays of solar panels into space and beaming their energy down to Earth. Unlike intermittent renewable-energy sources on the ground, these orbiting panels would always bask in bright sunlight and would potentially offer a continuous supply of power.  Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription $29.99 / 30 days cancel any time Subscribe to this journal Receive 51 print issues and online access $199.00 per year only $3.90 per issue Rent or buy this article Prices vary by article type from$1.95 to$39.95 Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-023-00279-8 Reprints and permissions 


                        
                        Build solar-energy systems to last — save billions
                    
 

                        
                        China sets sights on first solar power stations in space
                    
 

                        
                        Japan sets sights on solar power from space
                    
 A hot-emitter transistor based on stimulated emission of heated carriers Article 14 AUG 24 Fully forward mode training for optical neural networks Article 07 AUG 24 We need to prepare our transport systems for heatwaves — here’s how Comment 05 AUG 24 On-chip topological beamformer for multi-link terahertz 6G to XG wireless Article 14 AUG 24 Precision spectroscopy on 9Be overcomes limitations from nuclear structure Article 14 AUG 24 Twist-assisted all-antiferromagnetic tunnel junction in the atomic limit Article 14 AUG 24 Shore up renewable energy in wake of Brazil’s devastating floods Correspondence 06 AUG 24 How South Africa can move on from power cuts World View 06 AUG 24 Wasted renewables deny households cheap energy Correspondence 30 JUL 24 The Yakoub and Sulzer labs at Harvard Medical School-Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Columbia University Boston, Massachusetts (US) Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital CMLR's goal is to advance machine learning-related research across a wide range of disciplines. Beijing, China Center for Machine Learning Research (CMLR), Peking University ISM, based on this program, is implementing the reserve talent strategy with postdoctoral researchers. Suzhou, Jiangsu, China Suzhou Institute of Systems Medicine (ISM) YNL recruits leading scientists in agriculture: crop/animal genetics, biotech, photosynthesis, disease resistance, data analysis, and more. Sanya, Hainan, China Yazhouwan National Laboratory We aim to foster cutting-edge scientific and technological advancements in the field of molecular tissue biology at the single-cell level. Guangzhou, Guangdong, China Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health(GIBH), Chinese Academy of Sciences  


                        
                        Build solar-energy systems to last — save billions
                    
 

                        
                        China sets sights on first solar power stations in space
                    
 

                        
                        Japan sets sights on solar power from space
                    
 An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday. Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily. 

                    Nature (Nature)
                

ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
    

ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
    
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited