Sponsored By ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT JAMESTOWN — From a focus on building bomb racks in 1970 in Jamestown, Collins Aerospace has been manufacturing cargo systems and working with every airline that flies a widebody aircraft today. “We have product support people that work with all these airlines, support them, make sure they got the equipment they need, the spares they need,” said Craig Olin, director of business development for cargo systems at Collins. “We literally touch every corner of the world with our employees, with our product.” Collin Aerospace started as a Western Gear location in 1970 in Jamestown and focused on building items for the military. In 1977, it began producing cargo components for a Boeing 747 freighter.  ADVERTISEMENT “That expanded over the years as we got into more and more cargo businesses and fewer military businesses,” Olin said. He said Collins Aerospace in Jamestown deals specifically with cargo-handling systems. The cargo systems help quickly move cargo through the main and lower decks of an aircraft, according to its website. Collins Aerospace is one of the four major business areas of a merger between United Technologies Corp. and Raytheon Co. The merger in 2020 between United Technologies and Raytheon Co. formed Raytheon Technologies Corp. In 1996, the aerospace company began working on cargo systems for a main deck of a Boeing 747 freighter that has very large cargo capability. In 2011 or 2012, the company, known as UTC Aerospace Systems at that time, won a contract to build cargo systems for CH-47 Chinook helicopters, Olin said. “Since then, we’ve also started work on other military cargo systems,” he said. “ … We’ve had a rich history here for 50 years.” The Jamestown location has three plants in different locations. Plant 1 is the main facility where the production team, management and support functions are located.  A 20,000-square-foot addition is being constructed and will be attached to the main section of the plant. The Jamestown expansion includes space for new state-of-the-art chemical processing and paint lines designed to maximize operational efficiency, improve site ergonomics and provide customers with expedited delivery schedules. The chemical processing line will grow to include eight to 10 additional tanks, expanding the internal parts processing capabilities of the facility.  ADVERTISEMENT Plant 2 is close to Jamestown Regional Airport and is where Collins’ engineering group is located and tests items. Plant 4 is located in the same building as Job Service North Dakota and is where new product introduction happens. Jamestown is a good location for Collins because it’s located in the central-northern U.S., said Charles O’Neil, general manager of cargo systems for Collins Aerospace. He said Jamestown has a lot of good, hard-working people. The cargo systems include ball-transfer units, power-drive units, control systems, freighter-common turntables, centerline restraints, bumpers, unicaster panels, door sill assemblies and rollout stops, according to Collins’ website. The website says the components work together to convey and secure cargo within an aircraft for fast and easy loading and unloading. “Our system powers these containers in on power-drive units and then drives them down the tube of the aircraft where they are locked in place,” Olin said. “It’s very complicated. It’s a lot of software, a lot of electrical, mechanical.” The cargo systems are contoured to match any type of aircraft. The powered control system can move and rotate palletized containers through the lower or main decks of an aircraft.  Olin said sometimes an aircraft will be filled with nothing but iPhones. He said sometimes aircraft are transporting race cars or horses. He also said aircraft had to transport the coronavirus vaccines around the world as fast as possible. He said the vaccines had to be kept at a certain frozen temperature and time was limited to keep dry ice around them. ADVERTISEMENT “We felt like we were able to help support (during the pandemic) in some sense,” he said. Aircraft can carry cargo on the lower deck with passengers on an upper deck. There are also aircraft that carry just cargo on the lower and upper decks.  O’Neil said items ordered through E-commerce companies such as Amazon are sometimes shipped from overseas. “The cargo systems that are designed, qualified and manufactured out of Jamestown are what they are being carried on,” he said. “A lot of those Amazon packages, not all of them, but a good chunk of them have been on a cargo system out of Jamestown.” Collins also produces a cargo on/off loading system for the CH-47 Chinook helicopters for the U.S. Army, Olin said. In flight, the system can convert from a flat floor when troops are transported to a cargo floor with rollers in 12 minutes, he said.  “They had a problem because if they were going to carry people, they wanted a flat floor, so nobody would trip over anything, but if they wanted to carry cargo, then they wanted to be able to have rollers and locks,” he said. Developing its products can take anywhere from 18 months up to five years, O’Neil said. He said a lot of engineering work goes into designing a cargo system because each aircraft is different. ADVERTISEMENT He said Collins either develops a product that it wants to bring to the market or original manufacturers approach the company with ideas or solutions for an aircraft. Then the development work begins. “We go into prototyping. We then go into builds, alignment with the customers on the expectations and those requirements,” O’Neil said. “Then we go through qualifications effort where we make sure we meet those requirements or specifications of the customer. Then we test it to make sure that that works. Then it goes onto an aircraft for flying and then it’s tested at the aircraft level, and then becomes a system that is available to support the aircraft.” Olin said a lot of time is spent on research and development to bring a next-generation cargo system to market. “There’s a lot of companies out there, Amazon, that now fly their own aircraft that are looking for semi-autonomous, autonomous-type systems,” he said. “I think you will see the cargo industry is going to evolve in the future. … It’s going to be an ever-changing industry for the near future, and we want to stay at the forefront of that.” Olin said there are now companies such as Natilus that are developing unmanned cargo aircraft. “They should be flying within a couple of years, and we are working very closely with Natilus on cargo systems for them,” he said. Olin said the employees at the Jamestown location are key. ADVERTISEMENT “I think they are probably the best in the aerospace industry,” he said. “There is nothing that you can’t ask of them that they aren’t successful at.” Collins employs 320 employees at its main facility and another 96 at the other two locations in Jamestown, O’Neil said. “We expect to continue to grow this year in the range of about 40 employees for the cargo industry and the growth that we have,” he said.  He said Collins is looking to fill entry-level positions with assembly work, machinists and electrical, mechanical, stress, certification and software engineers. O’Neil said Collins has employees who started as an hourly material handler and worked their way into sales, traveling all over the world to see all the airlines that want the company’s products. “They built their career with the company, and there are several employees that have that opportunity,” he said. “We also have people who have been doing the same job for 20-plus years and are tickled to death to continue to do so. The nice thing about Collins Aerospace is once you get in the door, the destination is what you want it to be whether that is to stay in cargo or even outside of cargo within the Collins Aerospace or Raytheon Technologies company.” Collins offers benefits such as medical, dental and vision insurance, 401(k) with company match and tuition reimbursement among others. ADVERTISEMENT O’Neil said the tuition reimbursement program is “phenomenal” and he is currently working on his master's degree while the company pays for a part of that. Olin said Collins works closely with the James Valley Career and Technology Center for machinists in training. He said the company supports any STEM activities it can find. He said Collins also works closely with many colleges, including the University of North Dakota, North Dakota State University and the University of Jamestown. “(We’re) trying to reach in and get as many of these people interested in Jamestown and cargo as possible. It’s a strong co-op program, intern program,” he said. O’Neil said a lack of housing is an issue in Jamestown. “We need a community that wants to grow so that there are places for them, for all of these employees to come in and raise their families,” he said. “The jobs are there, wonderful career, a wonderful company to join, great opportunities, but we need to make sure when I go and recruit either from within our company, our wonderful universities here or around the globe, they need somewhere to live and make their career, make this their home.” For more information about Collins Aerospace, visit 
    
      www.collinsaerospace.com.
  ADVERTISEMENT