
            Over the past decade, the gene-editing tool CRISPR has rapidly
            evolved from the lab to the clinic. It started with experimental
            treatments for rare genetic disorders and has recently expanded into
            clinical trials for common conditions, including high cholesterol.
            New forms of CRISPR could take things further still.
           
            This is the year of the AI artists. Software models developed by
            Google, OpenAI, and others can now generate stunning artworks based
            on just a few text prompts. Type in a short description of pretty
            much anything, and you get a picture of what you asked for in
            seconds. Nothing will be the same again.
           
            The chip industry is undergoing a profound shift. Manufacturers have
            long licensed chip designs from a few big firms. Now, a popular open
            standard called RISC-V is upending those power dynamics by making it
            easier for anyone to create a chip. Many startups are exploring the
            possibilities.
           
            Military drones were once out of reach for smaller nations due to
            their expense and strict export controls. But advances in consumer
            componentry and communications technology have helped drone
            manufacturers build complex war machines at much lower prices. The
            Turkish Bayraktar TB2 and other cheap drones have changed the nature
            of drone warfare.
           
        Learn more about emerging technologies with an MIT Technology Review
        subscription.
       
            Abortion ceased to be a constitutional right in the US in 2022, and
            state bans now prevent many people from accessing them. So
            healthcare providers and startups have turned to telehealth to
            prescribe and deliver pills that allow people to safely induce
            abortions at home.
           
            Every day, an average of 17 people in the US alone die awaiting an
            organ transplant. These people could be saved—and many others
            helped—by a potentially limitless supply of healthy organs.
            Scientists are genetically engineering pigs whose organs could be
            transplanted into humans and 3D-printing lungs using a patient’s own
            cells.
           
            Electric vehicles are finally becoming a realistic option. Batteries
            are getting cheaper and governments have passed stricter emissions
            rules or banned gas-powered vehicles altogether. Major automakers
            have pledged to go all-electric, and consumers everywhere will soon
            find there are more good reasons to buy an EV than not.
           Sign up for our daily newsletter, the Download. 
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy.
 
            The first breathtaking images of the distant cosmos captured by the
            world’s most powerful space telescope inspired a collective sense of
            awe and wonder. And this thing’s just getting started. Discoveries
            will come almost as rapidly as scientists can analyze the data now
            flooding in. A new era of astronomy has begun.
           
            Genomic sequencing tools now let us read very old strands of human
            DNA. Studying traces from humans who lived long ago reveals much
            about who we are and why the modern world looks the way it does. It
            also helps scientists understand the lives of regular people living
            back then—not just those who could afford elaborate burials.
           
            Recycling is vital to prevent today’s growing mountains of discarded
            batteries from ending up in landfills, and it could also provide a
            badly needed source of metals for powering tomorrow’s EVs. Companies
            are building facilities that will reclaim lithium, nickel, and
            cobalt and feed these metals back to lithium-ion battery
            manufacturers, helping reduce the cost.
           
        Subscribe and get unlimited access to MIT Technology Review’s coverage
        and exclusive stories.
       
            Presenting the winner of the 11th breakthrough poll:
           Back to top Using fuel cells to power zero-emission flights. 
          10 Breakthrough Technologies is an annual list published by MIT
          Technology Review recognizing important technological advances in
          artificial intelligence, biotechnology, climate change, computing,
          cybersecurity, space science, and more. Every year, our reporters and
          editors nominate dozens of technologies we think will change the
          world. Some of the advances you see highlighted here are already
          widely available, while others will emerge soon. It’s the 22nd year
          we’ve published this list.
         
Design & EngineeringLead developer: Andre Vitorio Design:
          Vichhika Tep Product: Allison Chase
          CTO: Drake Martinet EditorialSpecial projects editor: Amy Nordrum Editing:
          Allison Arieff, Rachel Courtland, Niall Firth, Mat Honan, Amy Nordrum,
          David Rotman, and Amanda Silverman
Copy editing: Linda Lowenthal, David Richwine
          Engagement: Juliet Beauchamp, Abby Ivory-Ganja
          Fact checking: Matt Mahoney ArtArt direction: Stephanie Arnett, Eric MongeonIllustration:
          David Alabo, Michael Byers, Erik Carter, Nick Little, Amrita Marino
          Photography: NASA, Redwood MaterialsJWST Model:
          NASA,
Paul (Sketchfab), licensed under
Creative Commons

  © 2024 MIT Technology Review