ROCHESTER – New Hampshire’s healthcare community has endured extraordinary and unimaginable circumstances over the last few years. As one of the state’s largest sectors comprised of 60,000 dedicated individuals, healthcare workers have gone above and beyond the call of duty to heal, keep safe and ensure residents are well-cared for. In the Seacoast region, Cheryl Bonar from Cornerstone VNA in Rochester was named a NH Healthcare Hero and honored during a pinning ceremony on Wednesday, Nov. 9, for being a skilled nursing leader assisting patients while also training the next generation of nurses.For its third year, the NH Healthcare Heroes initiative has recognized the dedication, courage and commitment of the state’s healthcare community. One healthcare hero and two runners-up from seven regions were recently selected from across the state through nominations submitted by colleagues, family, friends and patients. In total, 21 healthcare heroes and 42 runners-up have been recognized over the program’s three years. “The pressures on our healthcare sector workers remain significant as we continually hear stories of how these individuals are asked to do more in more in critical jobs that involve the health and welfare of our citizens,” said Roxie Severance, healthcare sector advisor for the New Hampshire Sector Partnerships Initiative (SPI). “These recognitions help boost morale for entire organizations and shine a light on the work done not only in front-line healthcare but behind the scenes so that care can be delivered and maintained. Congratulations to these amazing winners and runners-up!” Serving as a RN Clinical Preceptor at Cornerstone VNA, Bonar plays an important role as a skilled nurse who cares for individuals of all ages and needs. Her nominator said, “Cheryl does not back down from a challenge and works with very young kids that require home infusion therapy to older adults that need teaching to be able to self-manage their disease or condition.” Bonar has been with the agency for 28 years serving a variety of roles including field nurse, weekend supervisor and RN Clinical Preceptor. “This is so special to be recognized in doing my job and taking care of my patients,” said Bonar. In 2020, the healthcare sector team at SPI developed the NH Healthcare Heroes effort to shine a light on the essential roles and opportunities to help others by working in the healthcare field. SPI is a collaborative, industry-led program that provides funding, training expertise and other resources to help companies within a growing industry sector collaborate on workforce development needs together.  For more information and to follow the stories from our heroes and runners up, follow the effort on social media at Facebook.com/HealthcareHeroesNH.  DOVER — For the second-consecutive year, Wentworth-Douglass Hospital has been named among U.S. News & World Reports’ Best Hospitals for Maternity Care. The hospital was recognized as ‘High Performing’ in Maternity Care (Uncomplicated Pregnancy), the highest award a hospital can earn. The annual evaluation is designed to assist expectant parents and their doctors in making informed decisions about where to receive maternity care. Wentworth-Douglass earned a ‘High Performing’ designation in recognition of maternity care as measured by factors such as newborn complication rates. “Wentworth-Douglass has consistently been the Seacoast’s leader in maternity care, and this is an outstanding recognition once again for our Women & Children’s Center,” said Jeff Hughes, President & CEO of Wentworth-Douglass. “It’s the incredible commitment of our staff, and the continued support of our community, that makes this sustained success possible.” Wentworth-Douglass set a birthing record in 2021, with 1,491 deliveries. The hospital delivered more babies than Exeter Hospital, Frisbie Memorial Hospital, Portsmouth Regional Hospital, and York Hospital combined. “From the moment a baby is born and through all stages of their life, we are here to support the entire family,” said Nicole Pendenza, Assistant Vice President of Women and Children's Services. “We have a strong commitment to compassionate, comprehensive care, so it’s very rewarding to see our staff and the Women and Children’s service line honored with this designation.” This is the second time U.S. News has published a list of Best Hospitals for Maternity. Of the hospitals who submitted maternity data this year, U.S. News says that less than half earned the top ‘High Performing’ rating. “When expectant parents are considering their options for welcoming a baby to the world, the Best Hospitals for Maternity Care are designed to help them identify hospitals that excel in delivering babies for uncomplicated pregnancies,” said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis and managing editor at U.S. News. “A hospital that has earned a High Performing designation may be a good option for parents, in consultation with their medical provider, to consider.” The U.S. News Best Hospitals for Maternity Care methodology is based entirely on objective measures of quality, such as C-section rates in lower-risk pregnancies, newborn complication rates, exclusive breast milk feeding rates, early elective delivery rates and vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) rates, among other measures. More information on the rating is available online at: https://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/nh/wentworth-douglass-hospital-6120080/maternity. ROCHESTER — Wentworth-Douglass Hospital will now be offering OBGYN services from Dr. Michelle Ciarlo at the satellite office Primary Care of Rochester, a Mass General Brigham Healthcare Center located at The Ridge Marketplace. Wentworth-Douglass opened their first Rochester location in September, following recent closures of other primary care practices in the area. “We opened our Rochester location, because we know there’s a need for health care services in that area,” said Melisa Bartlett, assistant vice president of Wentworth Health Partners. “Expanding our offerings into OBGYN is part of our commitment to improving access to care for not only expectant moms, but the entire Seacoast community.” Dr. Ciarlo is experienced in high-risk obstetrics, minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, infertility, and menopause. She joined Wentworth-Douglass in 2020 and previously provided care for the Rochester community for eight years at Frisbie Memorial Hospital. Dr. Ciarlo received her Bachelor of Science in Biology/Biological Sciences from Stonehill College in Easton, Mass. She received her Doctor of Medicine from Ross University School of Medicine in Barbados and completed her residency at the Saint Peter’s Healthcare System in New Brunswick, New Jersey. OBGYN services will be available beginning Dec. 13 and patients can establish care by calling 603-610-8079. LEBANON – Dartmouth Health orthopaedic surgeon Vincent D. Pellegrini, Jr., MD, FAOA, was recently recognized by the American Orthopaedic Association as a Pillar of the Orthopaedic Profession. The AOA honors exemplary orthopaedic surgeons, past and present, as Pillars of the orthopaedic specialty. Individuals recognized as Pillars have served as clinicians, educators, and researchers, providing essential support to others in the orthopaedic community. Their commitment has inspired peers, partners, fellows, and residents to emulate their integrity, excellence, and advancement of the profession. Pellegrini received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Dartmouth and completed an internship and residency in general surgery at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut followed by an orthopaedic residency and fellowship in surgery of the hand at the University of Rochester in New York. “I am honored to be recognized as a Pillar by the AOA, and humbled to be joining a distinguished group of colleagues,” said Pellegrini. “I have deepest gratitude for those who have come before me and served as my role models and mentors, and I am proud to have had the opportunity to teach and mentor so many wonderful young people who have in turn become leaders in our profession.” He noted that the recognition was particularly meaningful and gratifying because more than three-quarters of the supporters were prior medical students, residents, and junior faculty from four different institutions where he had served. Since 2019, Pellegrini has served as Professor and Vice Chair of Education and Research Affairs in the Department of Orthopaedics at Dartmouth Health's Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, New Hampshire, and as Professor of Orthopaedics and of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Prior to joining Dartmouth Health, Pellegrini served as professor and department chair of orthopaedics for 27 years at Penn State Hershey Medical Center, the University of Maryland School of Medicine, and the Medical University of South Carolina, where he also served as Associate Dean for Medical Education and Adjunct Professor of Bioengineering at Clemson University. Pellegrini currently serves as an examiner for the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and chair of the faculty council at Geisel School of Medicine. His greatest professional passion is for resident and medical student education, and he has been responsible for the education of more than 100 orthopaedic residents and 20 resident research fellows. He is an avid mentor and an active supporter of the AOA and the missions of academic medicine Pellegrini’s clinical interests include arthritis surgery, including total hip and knee arthroplasty and surgery of the hand, and his research interests include basal joint arthritis of the thumb, venous thromboembolism complicating total joint arthroplasty, heterotopic ossification, and the biology of fracture healing. His research has been funded by the Department of Defense, the US Army, and PCORI, and has resulted in over two hundred peer-reviewed publications and the Charnley and Stinchfield Awards of the Hip Society, the Coventry Award of the Knee Society, and the Nicolas Andry Award of the Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons. He was an AOA North American Travelling Fellow in 1984-85 and the ASSH Sterling Bunnell Traveling Fellow in 1991-92. Pellegrini has held leadership roles as President of the American Orthopaedic Association, The Hip Society, the Maryland Orthopaedic Association, the Medical Staff of the University of Maryland Medical Center, and as Chair of the Council of Faculty and Academic Societies of the AAMC and a member of the AAMC Board of Directors. He served as Deputy Editor of The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery and a member of the ACGME Residency Review Committee in Orthopaedic Surgery. LEBANON – Three Dartmouth Health employees received awards from the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services’ New Hampshire Immunization Program. The NHIP is a vaccine resource for healthcare providers, schools, childcare providers, families, and the general public. The awards were presented at the 2022 Annual Immunization Conference, where the theme was “Preventing Misinformation in the Digital Age.” Daniel P. Hollander, MA II, a medical assistant with Dartmouth Health Children’s, received the Excellence in Immunization Award. This award is presented to an individual who has demonstrated outstanding work in pediatric immunization through educational, strategic and process improvement efforts. “Winning this award humbled me,” Hollander said. “I have truly found a home working in pediatrics. I know that the work I’m doing is important, and being honored like this only further signifies that I’m doing the work I was meant to do. Getting vaccines protects us—and those around us—from getting serious illnesses. The children don’t always understand this, but it hopefully gives them some perspective on why they are getting these shots.” Jasmin J. Ward, MA II, a medical assistant in primary care at Dartmouth Hitchcock Clinics Heater Road, received the annual Tricia McGuire Memorial Award. The Tricia McGuire Memorial Award is presented to an individual who has made exceptional contributions in the area of immunization. Qualities include, but are not limited to, passion, creativity, and commitment to patient education; quality improvement strategies focused on improving vaccine delivery efficiencies and increasing vaccination coverage rates; and an individual that regularly goes above and beyond routine expectations. “This award means a lot to me and my efforts supporting vaccination,” said Ward. “I am passionate about making the vaccination process a positive experience for the pediatric population and their families. Knowing that I am helping protect children against disease makes me feel at ease. I will forever be committed to this work.” Susanne E. Tanski, MD, MPH, section chief and vice chair of general pediatrics at Dartmouth Health Children's, received the Social Media in Vaccine Education Award. This award is presented to an individual who has demonstrated outstanding work in pediatric vaccine education through the use of social media. “It is an honor to be the recipient of this award,” said Tanski, who believes that using social media is a necessary means to combat misinformation and provide a trusted source of information. “Vaccines keep us healthier, and they save lives. They prepare our immune system to prevent illnesses entirely or keep us from getting as sick compared to if we had no protection. This has huge benefits for individuals, families and our communities. Keep yourself and your loved ones healthy—get vaccinated.”