Wilmington, Delaware, Oct.  29, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Allied Market Research has released a report on the global mental health market that was bestowed $383.31 billion in 2020 and is projected to gain $537.97 billion by 2030, with a compound annual growth rate of 3.5% between 2021 and 2030. This report offers a comprehensive overview of the most prominent investment pockets, successful strategies, the market dynamics, the market size and projections, the competitive landscape, and the various market trends. It is an essential resource for the emerging market players, and stakeholders to strategically plan and strengthen their competitive edge.  Request Sample of the Report on Mental Health Market Forecast 2032 - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/request-sample/12135  Report Coverage & Details:  Recent Developments in the Mental Health Market:     Want to Explore More, Connect to our Analyst - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/connect-to-analyst/12135  The report offers an in-depth analysis of the global mental health market, categorizing it into different segments based on the disorder, services, age group, and region. Graphical and tabular representations of each segment and their sub-segments are used to demonstrate the analysis. This analysis can assist market players and investors, new market participants, and shareholders to focus on devising strategies to maintain their foothold in the market.  By disorder, the depression segment held a significant market share in 2020, accounted for nearly two-fifths of global mental health market revenue, and is anticipated to retain its dominance throughout the projection period. Furthermore, the eating disorders segment would showcase the fastest CAGR of 5.2% during the forecast timeframe.  By services, the inpatient hospital treatment services segment accounted for the largest market share in 2020, holding more than two-fifths of the global mental health market revenue, and is estimated to maintain its predominant position throughout the projection period. On the other hand, the emergency mental health services segment would exhibit the fastest CAGR of 4.8% during the forecast timeframe.  For Procurement Information - https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/purchase-enquiry/12135  By region, the market across North America region accounted for the major market share in 2020, retaining nearly three-fifths of the global mental health market revenue, and is predicted to maintain its lead position throughout the projection period. However, the market across the Asia-Pacific region would display the fastest CAGR of 4.4% during the forecast timeframe.  The research report also analyzed the top players in the global mental health market. Some of the big companies in this sector include Universal Health Services, Inc., Acadia Healthcare, Pyramid Healthcare, Strategic Behavioral Health, The MENTOR Network, North Range Behavioral Health, CareTech Holdings PLC, Promises Behavioral Health, Ascension Seton, and Behavioral Health Network, Inc.  Comprehensive Healthcare Industry Research Studies: -  Regenerative Medicine Market - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2022–2032  Europe IVF Services Market - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2022–2032  Continuous Glucose Monitoring Systems Market - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2022–2032  Enteral Feeding Devices Market - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2022–2032  Sinus Dilation Devices Market - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2022–2032     About Allied Market Research:  Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Wilmington, Delaware. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of "Market Research Reports" and "Business Intelligence Solutions." AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients to make strategic business decisions and achieve sustainable growth in their respective market domains. AMR offers its services across 11 industry verticals including Life Sciences, Consumer Goods, Materials & Chemicals, Construction & Manufacturing, Food & Beverages, Energy & Power, Semiconductor & Electronics, Automotive & Transportation, ICT & Media, Aerospace & Defense, and BFSI.  We are in professional corporate relations with various companies and this helps us in digging out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirms utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Allied Market Research CEO Pawan Kumar is instrumental in inspiring and encouraging everyone associated with the company to maintain high quality of data and help clients in every way possible to achieve success. Each and every data presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading companies of domain concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry.   Contact David Correa  1209 Orange Street,  Corporation Trust Center,  Wilmington, New Castle,  Delaware 19801 USA.  Toll Free: +1-800-792-5285  Int'l: +1-503-894-6022  UK: +44-845-528-1300  Hong Kong: +852-301-84916  India (Pune): +91-20-66346060  Fax: +1-855-550-5975  help@alliedmarketresearch.com    Web: https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com     Follow Us on: LinkedIn Twitter   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.