 Our editors independently select the products we recommend. We may earn a commission on items bought through our links.  It’s time to unleash the essence of summer and bring those vibes into our homes before it’s all over. Whether you’re seeking to revamp your backyard for chilled gatherings or transform your interior into an oasis of comfort and style, these handpicked Amazon finds hold the potential to elevate your living experience to new heights. Say goodbye to dull and uninspiring spaces and hello to vibrant and inviting surroundings. From stylish outdoor furniture and trendy decor pieces to innovative gadgets and refreshing accents, these products are designed to elevate your living space and create the perfect atmosphere for summer relaxation and enjoyment. Whether you’re hosting backyard barbecues, planning cozy evenings on the patio, or simply seeking to brighten up your interiors, these Amazon finds have got you covered. From innovative outdoor gadgets that redefine leisure to exquisite decor pieces that exude coastal charm, this curated list of 37 extraordinary products will have you hitting that ‘add to cart’ button and get ready to transform your home from drab to fab. Today's Top Deals Walk While You Work: This SPY-Tested Walking Pad Treadmill is Over $200 Off Save $160 On This Amazon 4K Fire TV JBL Earbuds Are $50 Off Right Now You will want to sit at the kiddie’s table when it looks this good. This extremely chic outdoor wooden table and bench set comes with an umbrella in matching espresso and oatmeal stripes to go with the bench cushions. This is great for kids from three up to eight years old. Find it on Amazon Relax and unwind in your own garden cocoon. You’d pay good money to reserve one of these at a beach club and now you can luxuriate in your own backyard on this round daybed. It has an adjustable canopy to keep the rays off as well as a pop-up table for your snacks and drinks. Find it on Amazon If you’re wanting to upgrade your outdoor furniture seating area but don’t have a fortune to spend, we’ve found this beautiful set for under $100. This three-piece rattan conversation set has a simple and clean design and color that will give any backyard an instant lift. Find it on Amazon Light up your steps or your balcony with these waterproof solar lights. They give a warm white light and can be staggered to light up your patio or even your fence. The lights don’t need to be switched on individually as they will automatically turn on. They just need a few hours of sunlight for them to be fully charged. Find it on Amazon Don’t suffer from night sweats, invest in some cooling bed linen to keep you cool and comfortable. These sheets don’t sacrifice style either. This cooling comforter is soft and silky to the touch and absorbs body heat while you sleep. Swathes of reviewers have noticed the difference, one five-star customer wrote: ‘It’s so thin and breathable, I was actually kind of cold while sleeping last night! It kind of gives the vibe of a top sheet but a little thicker and heavier, but not as thick and heavy as a regular blanket or comforter.’ Find it on Amazon It’s time to feel like you’re on vacation every day at home with this chaise set. The luxury set comes with an umbrella and ultra-comfortable cushions for you to kick back and relax on. Each has a shelf on its side to hold all of your essentials. The chairs can also recline to different levels until you’re at your most comfortable. Find it on Amazon Enjoy your summer’s evening and set the ambiance with this fire pit. Make the most of outdoors with this propane-fuelled fire pit that not only looks fabulous but gives off great heat too and it’s virtually carbon-emission free. We are also in love with the waterproof wood-style lid. One five-star fan shared: ‘This fire table completes our yard! I love how it looks and acts as a side table when not in use. When on, much warmth is provided without taking up a ton of space.’ Find it on Amazon Sometimes when it’s sweltering outside you can feel like you can’t enjoy it because it’s just too hot. But install these misters, whether it’s above your patio, on your fence, or around your flower beds to cool you right down. These misters can take the temperature down by 30 degrees which will make scorching temperatures so much more bearable. Find it on Amazon This hammock chair will quickly become a feature in your home. This hammock is about the most comfortable you’re going to get. It comes with two plush cushions that you can sink into as you’re suspended from the ceiling. You can rock gently and not worry about slipping with anti-slip discs that keep it in place. Find it on Amazon Bring a touch of the tropical spirit into your home with this terracota outdoor rug. Adding a rug to an area can change any space. This outdoor rug is made from waterproof material so that it’s hard-wearing, which is great for use under shoes. It’s quick cleaning and can be just hosed down when you need to give it a refresh. If you want it to feel plush underfoot, you might want to think about a rug pad. Find it on Amazon Have fun whipping up some cocktails this summer with this margarita salt rimmer. This is a fun addition to your drinks cupboard. The three-tier bamboo rimmer will certainly capture your guests attention and everyone will want to have a go. Find it on Amazon Imposing lanterns add a touch of class to any outdoor space. With blue metal frames for summery coastal vibes, this set of two comes with solar panels candles that work for up to eight hours, so you can keep them flickering safely through the night. One reviewer wrote: ‘These have been a great addition. I love that it is solar and it automatically comes on when the sun goes down.’ Find it on Amazon Go on, have some fun with this bright neon flamingo light to make your home pop. While it’s pink and neon the light is actually quite soft and instantly brings the holiday vibe home with you. Find it on Amazon Enjoy a splash of the tropics at home with this set of four prints that will make it feel like you’re in a lush land all year round. The set of four, which come unframed, can be styled together or popped in different parts of your home to bring it all together with the theme. Find it on Amazon If you like the idea of greenery but struggle to keep plants alive, you’re not alone. It’s not your fault you keep forgetting to water them, right? Now you don’t have to with this realistic artificial palm tree that gives the feeling of lush, greenery but without any of the responsibilities. We love that it already comes with a woven planter basket, so you don’t even need to do that. Find it on Amazon Add some plush comfort to your sitting area or even across your bed with these coral throw cushion covers. They’re perfect for the summer. The vintage effect means that they’re not too vibrant but the color still pops. While you can pop in the washing machine, it’s best to add a tiny bit of salt to the drum so that they keep its color. Find it on Amazon Create your own oasis and put your name on it with this customized beach sign. The sign is made out of weather resistant steel so it’s a perfect option to create something unique for your back yard. Find it on Amazon There’s something special about a seashell. That’s why we love these ocean string lights. Twirl them in a jar for a ambient lighting, or hang them on a wall to create a feature. They come with a remote control so you can switch to find your favorite lighting whether you want them flashing, slow fade, steady, and more. Find it on Amazon If you’re looking to create an immediate impact, this rattan cane bench is a standout option. We can’t believe the value of this piece. It’s so classy and understated, yet will be transformative in any space. Find it on Amazon We just love these rattan dining chairs. If you don’t want to fork out for a whole new dining set, upgrading your chairs is probably the best option. With a nod to tropical climates, the rattan back is very on-trend but is such a classic look that it will never really go out of fashion. Team that with the simple cream cushioned seat and you’ve got a timeless set that will always look smart. Find it on Amazon Not only is this L-shaped sofa the perfect spot to entertain and chat away until the early hours, but it’s also comfortable enough for a supreme nap. The conversational set, which includes a glass top table, is stunning with its woven rope design, making it a cute addition to any backyard. Just drape a throw over for effortless styling. Find it on Amazon You will no doubt have seen these low-rise tables on Instagram, Pinterest, and TikTok as people show off their tablescaping skills at baby showers and birthdays. Pop one in your backyard and give it a go with a number of scatter cushions for people to sit on. The handmade folding table can be stowed away easily when it’s not in use. Find it on Amazon Who has a mirror outside? The rich and fabulous, that’s who. But now, it can be you too. This rustic-style mirror will instantly change the whole look and feel of your outdoor space. It’s made with frost-proof glass so will be able to withstand chillier temperatures too. Find it on Amazon Add some wonder and mystique to your patio, balcony, or garden with these charming solar lanterns that create the most intricate and beautiful shadows. The solar lanterns will charge up during the day from the sunlight and then give a soft glow once the sun goes down. These lanterns are not just pretty to look at, they are also practical with the handle acting as a great hook to hang from trees around your yard too. Find it on Amazon Create your own backyard cinema with this mini HD projector. It might be small but it comes with high-quality in-built speakers to give you that movie theater experience as well as clear and sharp detailed images. Invite your pals over for the most fun night in. Find it on Amazon If you’re keen on making savvy changes that will make immediate changes without costing a fortune, think about your lighting. These woven pendant lights bring the drama and are super-affordable. It’s made from woven twine so brings in natural texture to the room and looks fabulous on its own or as part of a set. Find it on Amazon When it comes to the home, making sure that you appeal to all the senses will make you feel the happiest, so keeping your house smelling fresh is a priority. This sage and citrus candle from Yankee Candle will burn for 150 hours, giving your home a welcoming scent. Find it on Amazon Nothing will make your home the place to be more than a hot tub. This SaluSpa can fit you and a couple of friends for the ultimate chill-out session. It’s for 110 soothing air jets to get those bubbles going. One five-star fan shared that his family was delighted with it and that it is ‘one of the best things we spent money on’. Find it on Amazon If you really want to relax, this double-seater rattan set is a must have because it can be configured in so many ways to suit your needs. Whether you are having people over and need seating for four people or just want to create the ultimate lounging zone, you can do it all with the different elements. This set includes two corner chairs, two ottomans, and two coffee tables as well as six cushions. Find it on Amazon Elevate your space with this classy clock. It will always be an eye-catching part of your home. Instead of whipping out your phone or checking a digital screen, you’ll simply be able to look and know what time it is. One thing to note is that while it is a real clock, there is no ticking which you’ll no doubt be relieved to hear. Find it on Amazon We can’t get enough of this beautiful mandala design. The wall art can be placed above a headboard to finish the look, or on the side of a door frame to create an area of interest. There’s so much you can do with it. It does arrive in five different parts but they are simple enough to screw together. Find it on Amazon Feel the buzz as if you’re on your vacation and selecting all of your favorites with the buffet with these bamboo dry food dispensers. It has a little dial that you turn when your bowl is beneath and then dish out a 1/4 cup with each twist. They’ll look fantastic on your countertop. Find it on Amazon Upgrading your towels is a simple way to freshen up the decor in your bathroom for summery. This six-piece set includes two generously-sized bath towels, two hand towels and two matching washcloths. These textured towels are a break from the standard terry style and come in 25 colors. Find it on Amazon Create a magazine-worthy boudoir with this set of rattan nesting tables. Create a light and airy feel in your room with the rattan style while keeping all of your essentials close at hand. They’d look great styled next to the bed, or even on your balcony or garden. Simply pop a little vase, or candle on for a styled vibe. Find it on Amazon You’ll want to light up your garden and cozy up around the fire every night with this fire pit. Forming a central point for the whole family to gather around, you will spend hours chatting away or even roasting marshmallows around the flames. With fire, you always have to be careful and this comes with a steel mesh screen to catch any stray embers and sparks. Find it on Amazon Don’t trouble yourself running in and out of the house for the next drinks round, get yourself a funky bar cart on wheels. The retro-style cooler comes in a vibrant pop of color to add some fun to the mix. Whether you’re hosting a BBQ or are just wanting to keep refreshments close to hand, this outdoor cooler will keep your drinks chilled for up to 36 hours. It’s even got an integrated bottle opener so you don’t have to go searching for one. Find it on Amazon Go for something different when it comes to your next pool party, we love these LED pool globes. You can float or hang these LED light balls and they change every 25 seconds for an impressive light show. Let the float in your pool or scatter them around the garden for a bit of fun. Find it on Amazon More Top Deals from SPY iRobot Vacuums Are Up To 35% Off - Save Nearly $100 On The Roomba 694 Calphalon's Kitchen Knife Set is $40 Off Feeling Stressed? This Portable Back Massager Is 23% Off Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.