Ryan Slemons has been appointed to the newly created role of chief development officer at Dallas-based Unleashed Brands, a franchise growth-focused platform company that includes portfolio brands Urban Air Adventure Park, Snapology, The Little Gym, XP League, Class 101, and Premier Martial Arts. Slemons, an experienced retail real estate developer, spent more than 10 years at Starbucks and Amazon in several retail leadership positions. With the exec’s extensive experience with large-scale retail rollouts, Unleashed Brands sees Ryan’s skill set as a key advantage in the market. Unleashed has six youth enrichment platform brands under its umbrella. According to Unleashed Brands’ Chief Growth Officer, Josh Wall, Slemons’ appointment will benefit franchisees who have recently been awarded franchise agreements. “We’re thrilled to have [Slemons] on the team,” said Wall in a statement. “We’re confident this new role will help contract our development timelines to get open quickly and serve more kids faster in communities across the country.” The position expands the leadership team and is intended to help franchisees who have recently signed franchise agreements to find the best real estate, secure leases and get units opened quickly, the company said. Slemons started his career at Starbucks on their real estate development team and most recently was responsible for upkeep/maintenance and new store openings at Game Stop, the world’s leading gaming retail store with more than 5,000 units. He also spent more than six years with Amazon’s retail side, leading store development for the initial rollout of Amazon Fresh, in addition to Amazon Go and Amazon Style. The company said that Slemons will work with Wall in his new position on the Franchise Development Team. That will allow Wall to concentrate on growing the Unleashed Brands’ platform via new strategic brand acquisitions and new franchise development, while Slemons will focus on getting the newly signed franchisees open. Unleashed Brands has 1,300 franchises operating or in development serving more than 25 million children. In 2023, the brand plans to open more than 170 locations across the country and award 230 new franchise agreements. Unleashed Brands is backed by a management team with more than 150 years of combined consumer industry experience, focused on serving families and housing the world’s most innovative and profitable brands that help kids learn, play, and grow.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Dallas-based franchise growth-focused platform Unleashed Brands is expanding its leadership by hiring Diane Sanford as chief people officer. Among the platform's brands are Urban Air Adventure Park, Snapology, The Little Gym, XP League, Class 101, and Premier Martial Arts. Unleashed Brands and its affiliated companies have seen significant growth over the past year, according to founder and CEO Michael O. Browning Jr. "Diane brings great experience to this position, and her role will continue to support the growth and the culture at Unleashed Brands," he said in a statement. Sanford has more than 25 years of experience in human resources… Yuvo Health, a New York-based technology-enabled administrative and managed-care solution provider for community health centers, announced Coppell executive Selase Dow as its new chief operating officer. Dow, who will remain based in the Dallas-Fort Worth city, brings more than two decades of managed care experience to the New York startup. Dow has worked closely with large physician organizations in North Texas to implement financial and care models and has a deep background in operations, ACO management, contracting, and more. Yuvo Health is a New York-based startup founded in 2021 by a BIPOC founding team. The company aims to provide administrative… Dallas-based EnLink Midstream LLC announced that Benjamin D. Lamb has been appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer (CFO) and that Walter Pinto was appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer. In a move related to these appointments, EnLink said that its commercial and business development teams, previously overseen by the COO, will be led by a chief commercial officer to be hired from outside of EnLink. The company said that the CCO will join the EnLink executive leadership team and will focus on strategically growing its strong gathering and processing segments alongside its new carbon capture transportation… James Whatley has been appointed as chief information officer of Addison-based beauty and entrepreneurship company Mary Kay Inc. In this new role, the company said Whatley will champion its digital innovation efforts, including revolutionizing Mary Kay Independent Beauty Consultants’ ability to unleash their full potential through tools and technology. “Through the development of digital technology, tools, and applications, we’re improving not only the experience for the independent sales force, but for their customers around the world,” Mary Kay Chief Operating Officer Deborah Gibbins said in a statement. “James is a change champion. He understands how to equip the independent sales… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.