London-based Guinness Ventures are lead investors We have more newsletters We have more newsletters PlotBox, a Northern Ireland company which provides management software for cemeteries and crematoriums, has secured £5 million in capital investment. The Ballymena company said the funding round was led by London-based Guinness Ventures alongside a number of others investors, including Edingburgh-based Par Equity which has previously invested in the company. PlotBox said the funding will be used to support its global growth strategy and “revolutionse the way deathcare facilities both operate and grow”. Founded in 2014 by husband-and-wife team Sean and Leona McAllister, PlotBox is headquartered in Northern Ireland but has offices in the US and Australia and claims to be the digital transformation partner of choice for deathcare service providers across the globe. It helps cemeteries to manage graveyards by plotting existing graves using drone mapping technology geographical information systems, cloud-based software, and cemetery records. The firm’s software also helps both cemeteries and crematoriums to operate on a day-to-day basis in a more efficient manner. “Our mission is to help take away some of the pain in dealing with death - for families, and those who serve them,” PlotBox CEO, Sean McAllister said. “This funding will enable us to continue to realise that mission by providing customer-focused, innovative solutions that give our partners greater visibility, confidence and control in their data, and most importantly - more time to focus on what matters most.” PlotBox has grown substantially since first starting out and now has a workforce of 80. Guinness Ventures is a London-based specialist fund management company established in 2003. Guinness manages over £6 billion for institutional and retail investors, investing in public and private companies. Shane Gallwey, Head of Ventures, Guinness Ventures, welcomed the investment. “PlotBox is a leader in its field across its target markets including the UK and USA,” he said. “Sean, Leona and their team are innovators and disruptors in this sector and their hard work and commitment has established them as the best-in-class solution, bringing much needed modernisation to a fragmented industry. “PlotBox is a fantastic addition to the Guinness Ventures portfolio and we’re very much looking forward to supporting them on their continuing journey to reshape the deathtech industry”. 