PLAYERS put a lot of weight on their team’s star attacker, but support is likely more important. Bailu is one of the best healers in the game, and how much she heals increases with her maximum HP. With the right build she’s strong enough to keep your team healthy, and make sure they get the damage they need off. Here’s the best way to build Bailu and keep your team alive in Honkai: Star Rail. Bailu, like many other Honkai: Star Rail characters, is best suited for her signature Light Cone, Time Waits for No One. It will increase her maximum HP and Outgoing Healing, which both boost her healing power. The damage is deals is based on the wearer, allowing her to deal damage despite being a healer. If you don’t have her signature weapon, here are some good alternatives. The same applies for Bailu’s Relics. She will want to improve her maximum HP in order to improve healing. Speed is another stat to focus on, as the faster she moves, the more teammates she can heal. Her Energy Regeneration Rate will also help her charge her Ultimate much sooner. Here are some options for Bailu. Bailu is helpful on pretty much any team that still needs a healer, and so she is incredibly flexible. This team is probably the best one out there right now, as it pairs Seele’s amazing damage output with Bronya’s ability to manipulate the turn order.  Bailu is the best healer in the game at the moment and makes this composition even stronger. Written by Marco Wutz and Georgina Young on behalf of GLHF. Looking for tips and tricks across your favourite consoles and games? We have you covered... Get all of the latest PS5, Xbox and other video game news here   ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/