Web3 domain provider Unstoppable Domains is teaming up with Polygon Labs to roll out the .polygon domain, which can be used across decentralized applications on the Ethereum sidechain. With the new domain Unstoppable users can expand their Polygon-based Web3 identity. Owners of .polygon domains can use them to send crypto and non-fungible tokens (NFT), build Polygon-based websites and access over 750 decentralized applications, games and metaverses. Sandy Carter, chief operating officer and head of business development at Unstoppable Domains, said the move helps expand both ecosystems. "People can create a digital identity that they fully own, interact with hundreds of integrated apps and signal their support for Polygon." Carter told CoinDesk. Sanket Shah, vice president and head of growth at Polygon Labs, also noted that the partnership will help community members more easily interact with Polygon-based products and services. Unstoppable has been forging partnerships to expand users’ access to Web3 and metaverse identity. In January, the company teamed up with metaverse platform Ready Player Me to create interoperable metaverse identities. In February, the company tapped crypto browser Opera to expand its domain offerings for its users. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Cam Thompson was a news reporter at CoinDesk. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk