‘Be the Change You Wish to See in the World’ – these words resonate with Amitabh Shah who started the India based NGO - YUVA Unstoppable in 2005 at the mere age of 23. Touched by the stories he came across each day, inspired him to act as a catalyst in the development, improvement and growth of society. His journey made him realise that in spite of the pain and hardships faced by several, there is a lot of goodness in the world and everyone wants to help but may not know how to go about doing so. With this background in mind Amitabh started YUVA Unstoppable, India’s premier youth movement organisation.  “The younger generation has the force to propel society into further growth and development. Education holds the highest priority in India’s development mission and that’s exactly why we at Yuva Unstoppable started our scholarship program. To provide this precious resource with the necessary opportunities to expand and grow” – Amitabh Shah, Founder – Yuva Unstoppable.  22-year-old Monit Pal is a classic example of a student who was ready to give up on his and his family’s dream of becoming an engineer. A meritorious candidate with a 99.87% rank in Std. X, Monit hails from a family of 4 having extremely meagre financial and social circumstances. Living in a 10 x 10 feet room in Ahmedabad, Gujarat Monit’s annual family income is below INR 2.50 lac. In spite of obtaining the academic results, Monit set aside his desire and enrolled into the Commerce stream, aware that a student from his social background would not be able to afford the daunting task of payment of the engineering fees. Monit was very aware that a person from his economic means could not afford the liberty of choosing the academic stream of his choice.  A local newspaper article put Monit on Yuva Unstoppable’s radar whose scholarship program aims to transform the lives of less privileged children, gives wings to their dreams by providing long-term scholarships, coaching and mentoring. Through hard work, dedication and Yuva Unstoppable’s support Monit secured admission in L.D. College of Engineering and today is a proud Civil Engineer.  ‘Whoever is reading this article, I want to let them know not to lose hope, keep trying. Someone will come for sure, lift you up and place you where you have dreamt to be. Yuva Unstoppable came to me out of the blue like a Guardian Angel. These angels have helped me today become who I am’ – Monit Pal, Yuva Unstoppable Scholar  Monit today has secured campus placement as a Graduate Engineer Trainee with Shapoorji Pallonji Engineering & Constructions in Mumbai, Maharashtra. Securing a job with a prestigious company has also made Monit financially independent and a contributing member for his family.  The scholarship scheme not only provides for financial support but also concentrates on the students’ overall development by facilitating mentorship & counselling sessions, peer networking engagement opportunities and expert leadership lectures. Monit also acknowledges the support provided by Yuva Unstoppable and Amitabh Shah during the pandemic in the form of ration & sanitation kits to needy families. ‘Through all these years, Yuva Unstoppable has not only provided financial aid, but also given me tremendous mental guidance, always motivating me to do better and conquer everything’ signs off Monit.  Yuva Unstoppable is an India & US registered leading NGO founded in 2006 by a group of zealous individuals led by Amitabh Shah with a mission to empower children and youth through various initiatives. Through its grassroot-level programs Yuva Unstoppable today has emerged as one of the leading NGOs in India with initiatives towards education, infrastructure upgradation and health & hygiene. To know more about Yuva Unstoppable & its scholarship scheme visit www.yuvaunstoppable.org Disclaimer: This article is a paid publication and does not have journalistic/editorial involvement of Hindustan Times. Hindustan Times does not endorse/subscribe to the content(s) of the article/advertisement and/or view(s) expressed herein. Hindustan Times shall not in any manner, be responsible and/or liable in any manner whatsoever for all that is stated in the article and/or also with regard to the view(s), opinion(s), announcement(s), declaration(s), affirmation(s) etc., stated/featured in the same.  Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.