San Francisco, United States, 22nd February, 2023, Chainwire Unstoppable Domains commits to not assert against members of the Alliance its patents that are necessary to adopt the Alliance’s interoperability and security standards The Web3 Domain Alliance, a member-led coalition dedicated to improving the technological and public policy environments for users of Web3 naming services, today announced 52 new members including Blockchain.com, Rarible, Wyre, Bitdegree, WazirX, and Klever, along with dozens of other naming systems, projects and companies. In order to support the ongoing development of digital identity technology in Web3, Alliance members including Unstoppable Domains will make contributions, including technology, to enable interoperability and security standards. As part of this commitment, Unstoppable has irrevocably agreed not to assert against Alliance members its patents that are necessary to adopt the Alliance’s interoperability and security standards. More information can be found on the Web3 Domain Alliance website. A founding member of the Web3 Domain Alliance, Unstoppable was recently awarded a patent around resolving blockchain domains and aims to support innovation across the Web3 industry through its IP investments. Members of the Web3 Domain Alliance will engage on topics including consumer protection, interoperability of blockchain naming systems, fair and open use of intellectual property in the industry, preventing naming collisions, and more. Together, the Web3 Domain Alliance will advocate for standards in the Web3 domain industry to foster innovation and a safe environment for people. Recently, the team at Web3 social trading network Metascan deprecated their NFT top-level domain to avoid a name collision and joined the Web3 Domain Alliance. “As an early member of the Web3 Domain Alliance, we’re honored to work alongside our new co-members to unlock potential in the Web3 domain space,” said Sandy Carter, SVP and Channel Chief of Unstoppable Domains. “Together, we’ll build a Web3 domain space where new ideas and innovation can flourish and where more people can own their digital identity.” Web3 domains have seen a rapid increase in interest, with more than 3.4 million domains reportedly created across the industry in 2022 alone. Amid this rising interest, the Web3 Domain Alliance was founded in November 2022 as the first industry group to create standards for the blockchain naming industry. The Web3 Domain Alliance also aims to proactively engage in discussions with ICANN to increase ICANN’s awareness and recognition of Web3 Top Level Domains (W3TLDs). “Digital identity is the next great frontier of Web3 and we’re thrilled to support innovation in this space through the Alliance,” said Lane Kasselman, President at Blockchain.com. “We look forward to helping set standards as a community so we can protect users as the Web3 domain industry grows.”  Web3 domains provide a vital component of a person’s Web3 digital identity. Domains can be used, among other things, to send and receive cryptocurrency in place of lengthy alphanumeric wallet addresses, host a website that you fully own, set up secure email forwarding, and sign into hundreds of apps, games, metaverses and more. Web3 domains are minted on the blockchain and stored in a user’s wallet, putting ownership in the hands of the owner. As part of today’s announcement, the Alliance welcomes 27 new naming systems, including Stargaze Names, iheartdomains.xyz, EDNS, NF.Domains [TxnLab Inc.], United Domains, Threely, Xdc Web3 Domains, Astar Web3 Domains, Tron/Bittorent Web3 Domains, Velas Web3 Domains, IoTeX Web3 Domains, Fusion Web3 Domains, Elastos Name Service, Moon Web3 Identity, Wanchain Web3 Domains, Ontology Web3 Domains, NEAR, OKC Web3 Domains, Meter Name Service, Metis Name Service, Fuse Web3 Domains, Easy IP, IAMX.ID, .CSPR Domains, Metascan, NFTR, and NFT Domains SA. Additional new members to the Alliance include Blockchain.com, Wyre, Rarible, Bitdegree, WazirX (Bandit), Math Wallet, Guarda, Solo Wallet, My Doge Wallet, OMNI, Talent Protocol, Indacoin, Markmonitor, Revest Finance, Coreum, Cian, LunarCrush, Web23, WAM, NFTrade, XcelPay, Klever, KICA, Wirex, and Puma Browser. Early members of the Web3 Domain Alliance include Unstoppable Domains, Bonfida, Polkadot Name System, Hashgraph.name, Syscoin, and klaytn.domains. Founded in 2022, the Web3 Domain Alliance is a member-led, member-driven organization dedicated to improving the technological and public policy environments for users of Web3 naming services. It exists to promote the development of the Web3 naming industry and the functioning of Web3 domain registries with and across blockchain-based and traditional web applications. The Web3 Domain Alliance is also dedicated to the technological advancement and interoperability of Web3 domain registries. Web3 Domain Alliance, [email protected] Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
