Sam Thompson has claimed in a new interview that "nothing" can faze Zara McDermott, as she prepares to go to battle with a host of other celebrities for Strictly's Glitterball trophy. "Zara handles pressure. She's cool," he told the Daily Star in an interview ahead of her debut. "Zara's worked so hard that nothing, I don't think, will ever faze her. I genuinely don't," he continued. "I'm lucky enough to have been with her for four and a bit years now and when she puts her mind to something, she's absolutely unstoppable. "I haven't seen anything faze her yet."   READ NOW:    Harry looks 'miserable' and distracted at Beyonce gig but Meghan lets hair down  [PICTURES]   The star, who has over two million followers on Instagram, has already demonstrated her incredible versatility, despite being just 26 years old. She once had a government job, in which she was a part of a team responsible for briefing the Prime Minister, and she posted selfies of herself at 10 Downing Street. Later, she made a name for herself as a fashion influencer, boasting an increasingly sexy wardrobe full of bikinis and stylish dresses. Ultimately, she then transitioned to a reality TV contestant thanks to her stint on Love Island, and her subsequent hosting role on BBC Three's Love In The Flesh.   Don't miss...     Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz's living situation with their rarely-seen children  [INSIGHT]     Dan Walker admits move to Channel 5 has been 'strange for family to get used to'  [LATEST]     Rylan Clark shares pic of mum in hospital bed after fall as she’s taken aback  [PICTURES]   We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Zara has also got her teeth into some serious and hard-hitting topics, bringing to life documentaries on issues such as eating disorders and revenge porn. It was announced earlier this summer that she'd be fronting an additional new documentary on the popularity of party island Ibiza and the magnetism it holds for Brits. "As the 'Instagram effect' makes Ibiza the place to be seen for more and more young Brits, I’m keen to explore how the island operates and deals with the challenges this poses," she stated ahead of the four-part show's screening on BBC Three. Inside Ibiza is due for release next year, but in the meantime, she's raring to go on Strictly.  Unable to contain her excitement, she enthused that she'd grown up with the show and had fond memories of watching it with her grandmother. "I am so excited to be joining the world of Strictly!" she exclaimed, recalling "dancing around the house" to the tunes at home. "I even remember the first ever series, and being mesmerised by all the beautiful dresses! I can’t wait to throw myself into this experience and start training. It’s going to be incredible." Meanwhile, boyfriend Sam has already teased that the pair have been waltzing around the kitchen in readiness for whatever challenges Strictly might throw at her. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?