This development allows users to establish their digital identity on the Ethereum blockchain. For individuals unfamiliar with .eth domains, they provide a simplified alternative to long wallet addresses. Instead of using complex wallet addresses like “0x74Fe1103d28fb79F4d83800003983390Dfc61234,” users can register a more straightforward name like “me.eth.” This simplification improves user experience and makes it easier for others to interact with their digital identity on the blockchain. By incorporating ENS domain endings, Unstoppable Domains expands its suite of Web3 services, allowing crypto users to establish and manage their digital identities securely on the Ethereum blockchain. In addition to .eth domains, Unstoppable Domains offers a range of other domain extensions, including .nft, .crypto, .x, and more. These domains are minted on the Polygon network, enabling users to buy and manage their domains without incurring any gas fees. When purchasing .eth domains through Unstoppable Domains, the domains will be minted on the Ethereum blockchain. As a result, users will incur Ethereum blockchain fees associated with the transaction. Unstoppable Domains is also introducing an optional auto-renewal feature to address the inconvenience of remembering to renew ENS-based Web3 domains and to mitigate the risk of accidentally losing a .eth domain. With this, users have the choice to renew their .eth domains for a specific period, ranging from a few months to a couple of years. The cost of auto-renewal is $4 per period. “There’s room for all of us in Web3, and it’s time for us to move forward as an industry — together. We’re building a place to easily buy and manage all your Web3 domains and look forward to adding even more support for leading naming systems and blockchains in the future,” said Matt Gould, CEO and Co-Founder of Unstoppable Domains. Unlike traditional domain registration, Unstoppable Domains are tied to a specific wallet but not controlled by any centralized outfit like governments or registrars of DNS domains. The blockchain domain registry enables censorship-resistant websites and simplifies cryptocurrency payments. Blockchain domains use smart contracts that are built on top of the Ethereum network and stored inside a user’s wallet. Specifically, the domain is based on so-called non-fungible tokens (NFTs), which help assign the domains and look up the addresses. This mechanism eases up on crypto payments and ensures that these websites are resistant to censorship. For example, to send cryptocurrency, all you need to know is the recipient’s blockchain domain. Furthermore, Unstoppable Domains offers a Google Chrome extension and an integration with Opera browser, which claims to have counted over 200,000 domains to date.   Unit No: BA857 DMCC Business Centre Level No 1 Jewellery & Gemplex 3 Dubai, United Arab Emirates. International House, 10 Admirals Way, London, England, E14 9XL. © 2024 FFEEDS DMCC. All Rights Reserved.
