
  A HOUSEBOUND Dunfermline man said his serious health conditions had been made worse by Fife Council's failure to deal with damp in his home.
 
  Andrew Campbell, 59, of Gladstone Place, who suffers from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and emphysema, struggles to breathe and is on oxygen round the clock, was told by the local authority to "wash it down and paint over it".
 
  Last week, the council ordered a review into how they tackle damp, condensation and black mould in their housing stock following the death of a two-year-old boy, Awaab Ishak, in Rochdale from what the coroner described as prolonged exposure to mould.
 
  Mr Campbell said: "I’ve been waiting for years on them to rectify the dampness problems in my home which affects my poor respiratory health condition very badly. It’s all talk and no action."
 
  He added: "It’s only when there’s a fatality they start to wake up. They need to wake up now before their tenants are no longer able to wake up."
 
  Mr Campbell said there is damp in the hallway and stairwell of his home and claimed: "My health issues deteriorated ever since I moved into this house, I only had slight breathing issues which was overcome by an inhaler.
 
  "Only when I moved in here did it escalate into more severe respiratory issues and it’s still ongoing.
 
  "I mostly stay in my bedroom upstairs with my heating on to stay warm, it’s cold downstairs, there isn’t enough ventilation in my stairwell and hallway to let the air circulate through and expel the damp moisture from it.
 
  "I really think the council are more concerned about saving money than saving lives to be honest."
 
  He continued: "All they keep telling me to do is wash it down and paint over it.
 
  "My wife, Elaine, has been doing this regularly as my mobility is very limited. She struggles to try and do everyday tasks around the house, including caring for me, never mind washing down walls and ceilings and painting them constantly.
 
  "This was reported by myself to my respiratory care team from Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy and via the respiratory nurses at my GP surgery in Dunfermline.
 
  "They too have contacted Fife Council concerning the dampness problem in my home as they are very concerned about my health, as it’s seemingly related to my ongoing breathing problems which have been deteriorating for a while now, but the council seem unconcerned and really not interested."
 
  The council's area housing manager, Lynne Johnston, said: "One of our team will be in touch with Mr Campbell to discuss his situation and see what help and support we can provide.
 
  "The council have begun a review of their approach to tackling dampness/condensation and black mould within our housing stock.
 
  "We're looking at all outstanding complaints where black mould is a problem for tenants and will be taking steps to deal with this problem."
 
  Last week, housing spokesperson Councillor Judy Hamilton said: "The death of Awaab Ishak in Rochdale has shocked us all and the council is determined that we take action to ensure that this does not happen in any council house in Fife.
 
  "I am working closely with the housing service to move the review forward and I am certain that we can improve the living condition of our tenants who are living with dampness and condensation.
 
  "Everyone in Fife has the right to live in decent, dry and affordable housing and I am determined that this should be the case for tenants affected by this problem."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.