    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Expert Reviewed
									 Whether you’re more focused on heart health, weight loss or simply a more balanced eating plan, choosing the best diet can be a crucial piece of the puzzle in meeting your health and wellness goals. Food is fuel, and it’s important to provide your body with the necessary nutrients. But with the wide variety of diets out there, which ones are the best? To determine the best diets of 2024, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted a panel of nutrition experts to rate an array of diets across a number of metrics ranging from weight loss to heart health. Below are the top nine diets that received the highest average scores. (However, keep in mind, you should always talk with your doctor before starting a new diet plan). The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes integrity in all of our diet and nutrition rankings. Our rankings are based on expertise and professional recommendations from medical and nutrition experts and are free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured on our rankings and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about nutrition that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our best diets methodology for the rankings below. Inspired by the traditional eating patterns of southern Italy and Greece, the Mediterranean diet is deemed “the gold standard in preventive medicine,” due to its “harmonic combination” of antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties, according to a review of studies.[1]Martinez-Gonzalez M, Martin-Calvo N. Mediterranean diet and life expectancy; beyond olive oil, fruits and vegetables. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2016;19(6):401-407.  The Mediterranean diet recommends filling your plate with fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts and legumes, with moderate portions of fish and shellfish for protein, and this diet yields health benefits, including increased life expectancy, reduced risk of chronic disease and improved quality of life. What’s more, the Mediterranean diet includes a delicious variety of foods, so it’s easy to adopt and follow as a lifestyle, thanks to its slew of resources—which range from supportive apps to meal delivery services. “It’s not surprising that the Mediterranean diet ranked number one,” says Jackie Newgent, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “First, it’s not a ‘diet’ as we have come to think of diets; it’s a lifestyle. Following it means you will be selecting foods that are fresh and wholesome—and you’ll have plenty of flexibility. Because it’s designed more as an eating lifestyle, it doesn’t lead to ‘yo-yo’ dieting. There are no ‘good’ or ‘bad’ food lists to choose from.” The DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet was designed specifically with heart health in mind. It takes a low-sodium approach to eating, and studies show the DASH diet effectively lowers blood pressure and “bad” LDL cholesterol.[2]DASH Eating Plan. National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. Accessed 04/06/2021.  On the DASH diet, you use a chart to estimate your daily calorie needs, which are then used to figure out how many servings from each food group you should have. Leslie Bonci, a registered dietitian, board-certified specialist in sports nutrition and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member, notes that the DASH diet is beneficial for blood pressure levels, but acknowledges its emphasis on produce may make it pricier than other eating plans. “You may find it harder to eat out with the reduced sodium…and cooking without adding salt may be more challenging as well, but adding in spices and herbs can make this diet even healthier,” says Melina Jampolis, M.D, a board-certified physician nutritionist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. For those who want to reap the benefits of a plant-based eating plan, but don’t feel like they can or want to commit to giving up that slab of bacon at brunch quite yet, the flexitarian diet might be a good fit. Described by the International Food Information Council as a “semi-vegetarian, plant-forward diet,” the flexitarian diet emphasizes plant-based foods (like fruits, vegetables and legumes) dairy and eggs, and recommends less frequent and/or smaller portions of meat. The organization notes that emerging research suggests this way of eating may have benefits ranging from weight management to reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Dr. Jampolis dubs this diet as, “overall very reasonable and healthy.” She notes that, “some people may not feel as satiated with less meat, but fruits and vegetables should help fill you up along with high-fiber beans…[there] are no major food groups omitted, so it’s a balanced diet and its emphasis on plants and spices really helps with inflammation.”  Another iteration of vegetarianism, the pescatarian diet—which is mainly plant-based with the inclusion of fish and other seafood—earned high marks for categories like ease of use and safety. A 2020 study found that pescatarians are less likely to be living with obesity and have a lower prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors such as high BMI, hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia.[3]Wozniak H, Larpin C, de Mestral C, Guessous I, Reny JL, Stringhini S. Vegetarian, pescatarian and flexitarian diets: sociodemographic determinants and association with cardiovascular risk factors in a Swiss urban population. Br J Nutr. 2020;124(8):844-852.  “The eating plan is broad and allows for variety, but one must like fish!” notes Bonci. “Studies consistently show that vegetarian diets are associated with a lower risk of diabetes, heart disease and less weight gain/lower weight than diets that include animal protein/meat, however they can be restrictive, so a pescatarian diet that includes fish is less restrictive and can make a predominantly plant-based diet more livable,” says Dr. Jampolis. The classic vegetarian diet snags a spot on our ranking, earning high marks for its safety and ability to boost heart health, as well as for being a particularly healthy option for people with diabetes. Additionally, research has found that a lifelong adherence to to a vegetarian diet was associated with a 35% lower risk of developing diabetes, and those who adopted a vegetarian diet after being non-vegetarian had a 53% lower risk of developing the condition compared to non-vegetarians.[4]Olfert MD, Wattick RA. Vegetarian Diets and the Risk of Diabetes. Curr Diab Rep. 2018;18(11):101.  “Plant-based proteins such as lentils, beans and soy can be lower-cost options as well as dairy and eggs,” says Bonci adding, though, if this diet is not well-planned, there can be nutrient deficiencies. “A vegetarian diet is a terrific approach to get more plants into your eating plan, which is a key reason why it’s a diet winner,” says Newgent. “While there are several types of vegetarian diets, the most popular is a lacto-ovo vegetarian diet, which includes dairy and eggs—making it easier to follow and meet nutritional needs than if going vegan or 100% plant-based.” “For people who dine out or travel frequently, or who have a chaotic work or family schedule, a vegetarian diet offers plenty of flexibility,” she adds. “There are no detailed food charts, nonsensical food avoidance lists or ‘rules,’ or specific meal timing to worry about. And pizza is included!” On the Volumetrics diet, you eat foods with lower caloric density, which is determined by dividing the number of calories by the number of grams found on food labels. The idea is you can feel full while still shedding pounds. Lower-caloric density foods are typically high in fiber and water content. Jennifer Fiske, a registered dietitian nutritionist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member, notes this diet is a “great teaching tool for building balanced meals,” but caveats that it can be restrictive. “I love the idea of adding liquid to food,” says Bonci. “That is a simple, low-cost solution to add to the ’fill up, not fill out’ factor and Dr. Rolls [the creator of the diet] has done extensive research.” Research has found that the MIND (Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay) diet substantially slows cognitive decline with age.[5]Morris MC, Tangney CC, Wang Y, et al. MIND diet slows cognitive decline with aging. Alzheimers Dement. 2015;11(9):1015-1022.  Further, studies have also found that the MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independent of common brain pathology, suggesting it may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly.[6]Dhana K, et al. ‘MIND Diet, Common Brain Pathologies, and Cognition in Community-Dwelling Older Adults’. 2021:683–692.  Bonci notes that the foods emphasized on this eating plan may be cost prohibitive for some, but applauds the diet for its potential benefits for the brain. “This diet is a combination of the Mediterranean diet and the DASH diet, so it’s both heart-healthy and, again, the moderate carbs could give it a little edge over the DASH diet for diabetes,” says Dr. Jampolis. “It may be a little more challenging to hit the specific weekly food targets, but if you do, your brain will surely benefit.”  If you like the structure of commercial diets, WeightWatchers is the top pick. A number of our panelists noted the diet’s robust support network, which ranges from weekly meetings to a booming online community. Instead of focusing on restricting certain foods, it emphasizes moderation, making it much more manageable than other diet programs. “WW has evolved over the years with the research,” says Toby Amidor, a registered dietitian, Forbes Health Advisory Board member and a panelist on our ranking. “Its latest WW+ program provides individualized recommendations for diet, as well as lifestyle factors including stress/mindset, sleep and physical activity. The diet portion is inclusive of all the food groups, and emphasizes wholesome foods including fruits, vegetables and whole grains. For folks who like to track their points/food, it’s a potentially healthful program for them.” Our reviewer lost 5 pounds after trying WW for four weeks. “I was excited to start WW and I’m happy I did—not just because I lost weight,” notes Rahmanam. “The program taught me the value of an active lifestyle when trying to be healthier, and it proposed a diet I found to be sustainable and not restrictive. I was able to go out to dinner while still abiding by the points-based plan, even sometimes enjoying a dessert.” Read her full review of the program here. This three-part diet developed by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute is designed to improve cholesterol levels by emphasizing soluble fiber (which blocks the intestinal wall from absorbing cholesterol and fats into the bloodstream) while decreasing saturated fat and cholesterol. The other component of this diet is its encouragement of plant stanols and sterols (which are found in foods such as whole grains and olive oil), as well as an increase in activity levels. Although Bonci notes this diet may not be the best option for weight loss, she points out that it’s “more for heart health,” as it’s more plant-based. For our best diets ranking, we surveyed three nutrition experts,  who provided scores on diets for the following metrics:  Winners and star ratings were assigned to the diets with the highest average scores across all categories. Read more about our diet review methodology. Change Your Relationship With Food Noom doesn’t follow a “one-diet-fits-all” approach. What you're already eating can likely be adapted to your goals. Start your custom program today. Simply put, a diet is the foods and beverages you consume on a daily basis. A diet plan is typically designed with a purpose, whether it’s to lose weight, gain weight, control blood sugar or something else, says Lawrence J. Cheskin, M.D., chair of the nutrition and food studies department at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. However, not all diets are the same. Some advocate for plant-based or low-carbohydrate eating, while others might cut out red meat or animal products altogether. While a balanced diet of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, healthy fats and protein is generally encouraged, it’s always best to discuss with your doctor before embarking on a new eating plan. Following a healthy diet can be a crucial element in leading a healthy lifestyle, with one of the main benefits being lowering your risk of chronic disease, such as diabetes or cancer. Consuming a balanced mix of fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains, lean meats and fish can help lower that risk. Some of the unhealthy dietary practices to watch out for include a high intake of salt, sugars and saturated fats. A healthy diet is also an important factor in maintaining a healthy weight. From 2017 to March of 2020, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that the prevalence of obesity in U.S. adults was 41.9%, making it a common condition.[7]Adult Obesity Facts. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Accessed 11/16/2022.  You might consider dieting if you want to lose weight, find yourself making unhealthy eating choices, want to address a certain health problem (such as high blood pressure or digestive distress) or want to increase your nutrient intake to combat health woes like sluggishness or brain fog. Adolescents specifically should not follow a strict diet that avoids certain food groups or nutrients as it can increase the risk of developing an eating disorder compared to their peers who do not diet. Instead, children and teens should focus on eating healthy foods in appropriate portions and getting regular movement into their day. Anyone prone to an eating disorder should not follow a strict diet as it’s proven that many people with eating disorders were on a diet at the time they developed their eating disorder. While it seems the amount of available diets to try are endless, here are a handful of general types of diets that you can get familiar with when looking to start dieting. A balanced diet includes a large focus on fruits and vegetables, followed by whole and intact grains, healthy proteins such as fish or poultry and healthy plant oils, like olive oil, in moderation. Staying physically active and focusing on drinks like water, coffee or tea, rather than sugary drinks or an excess of dairy, also contributes to a healthy, balanced diet and lifestyle. To start a diet, select a plan or come up with your own and figure out how it’s going to fit into your life. Consider what you’ll do differently every day. Then figure out how you’re going to incorporate those changes into your life. Once you’ve chosen an approach, Dr. Cheskin recommends giving it a road test by trying it for a few days to see if it might work for you. Think of this as the dieting equivalent of dipping your toes into the water before diving in. Once you find a plan that feels comfortable and sustainable, commit to it and take the plunge. When starting a diet, Dr. Jampolis also notes that it’s important to anticipate challenges you might incur and have a plan to overcome them—such as having healthy, frozen meals ready to go in the freezer. To actually stick to your diet, you need to think about your why. Why do you want to do it? What’s in it for you? And how committed are you to adopting this new approach? Having this information top of mind—or even on a Post-It note—can rekindle your motivation when it wanes. “A lot of people think of diets as temporary things, but if they go back to what they were doing before, it’s not going to be of long-term benefit,” says Catherine Christie, Ph.D., a registered dietitian, professor of nutrition and dietetics and associate dean of the Brooks College of Health at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville, Florida. “Which diet is going to work for you depends on which [one] you can follow and stick with.” Also, keep in mind what works for friends might not work for you. Consider your food preferences, lifestyle, budget and personal health goals. Other strategies to help you go the distance include: “You can tell if [a diet] is promising within days, based on whether it feels comfortable and sustainable,” says Dr. Cheskin. But it may take weeks, even months, to tell if a diet is helping you lose the weight you desire. Depending on your size, weight loss of half a pound to 2 pounds a week is optimal. If you lose weight faster than that, it’s likely to be water weight, which will get replaced, and muscle mass, which won’t, explains Bonci. You want to lose body fat—not muscle—for the sake of your overall health, well-being and metabolism. “It’s more than the number—it’s the composition [of what you’re losing] that matters,” says Bonci. A diet does not work if the weight loss cannot be maintained over the long-term. In fact, losing weight too quickly can lead to muscle loss, which can ultimately impact your metabolism and the rate at which your body burns calories after you stop dieting. Instead, weight loss of up to 1 to 2 pounds per week is often considered manageable to maintain over the long-term. A diet is also not working if it begins to tip into the dangerous territory of an eating disorder. It’s important to be aware of warning signs that may signal an eating disorder. Among others, these can include: Following a healthy diet has a variety of benefits and also comes with some risks, depending on what type of diet you are trying. The safest diet is one discussed with a doctor that includes all needed nutrients and contains enough calories for weight loss to be approximately 1 to 2 pounds per week. As reflected in our ranking, safe and effective diets often recommended by experts include the Mediterranean diet, DASH diet and flexitarian diet, which emphasize moderation (and not total restriction). Setting realistic and healthy goals helps keep a diet safer, as trying to lose weight too quickly can cause health problems such as loss of muscle, water and bone density. Losing weight too quickly may also cause: It’s advisable to stay away from any diet that: The first thing to consider when deciding on a diet is: What’s my goal? Am I trying to lose weight or body fat? Or am I trying to improve a specific aspect of my health or my life? A 2014 study in Health Psychology and Behavioral Medicine found that examining the intersection of life goals and dietary goals can have an impact on your ability to achieve and maintain diet-related changes.[10]Turner-McGrievy GM, Wright JA, Migneault JP, Quintiliani L, Friedman RH. The interaction between dietary and life goals: using goal systems theory to explore healthy diet and life goals. Health Psychol Behav Med. 2014;2(1):759-769.  Once you know what your desired outcome is, it’s time to delve into the details. Dr. Cheskin says to determine if you’re likely to stick with a diet, it’s important to “know yourself—the more you can be introspective, the better.” To that end, ask yourself the following questions: “The practicality of what you’re choosing is really important because there are still only 24 hours in a day,” says Bonci. It’s also wise to consider your dieting history, including what has worked for you and what hasn’t—and why. “There are very few people in this world who haven’t been through this a few times before,” Bonci says. There may be valuable lessons in your previous experiences. If you were tired and miserable on a low-carb approach in the past, you should probably look at a different one. On the other hand, if you were successful with a plan that included mini meals throughout the day, that approach might be worth trying again. Also, think about what’s realistic for your lifestyle. While a rigid, calorie-cutting plan may be appealing initially because it takes the guesswork out of what to eat, it may be hard to stick with it for an extended period of time. “If there isn’t some flexibility built in, it probably won’t work for you in the long term because life throws us curveballs,” says Dr. Cheskin. “It should be adaptable to different situations and personalities.” In other words, it needs to be a plan you can live with. It’s also important to consider a particular diet’s safety and effectiveness. For example, is there research or science behind the diet? Or is it based on unproven assumptions? Look at statistics or clinical studies to gauge its success for other people, Dr. Cheskin advises. In general, experts say that a healthy, sustainable weight loss plan should include: The Mediterranean diet takes the top spot on our ranking of the best diets, as it scored high marks for categories ranging from heart health to weight loss. Rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish and lean poultry, this diet allows for flexibility, which promotes long-term sustainability. “Because it’s designed more as an eating lifestyle, it doesn’t lead to ‘yo-yo’ dieting. There are no ‘good’ or ‘bad’ food lists to choose from,” says Newgent. 
                Eat Smarter With Noom
             Noom’s 5–minute quiz unlocks a weight loss program customized for you – now with GLP-1 options – so you can manage your health and form habits that last. On Noom's Website According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a healthy diet features fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts and whole grains while avoiding excess salt, sugars and trans fats. Specifically, the Mediterranean diet, the DASH diet and the flexitarian diet all earned high marks from our panel of experts as healthy and effective diets. Popular diets include the Mediterranean diet, the DASH diet, flexitarian, WeightWatchers and more. The best diet plan for long-term weight loss involves switching out unhealthy eating habits for healthy ones. It should focus on more natural, unprocessed meal choices and include a balance of fruit and vegetables, protein and healthy fats, while being low in sugar and salt. An effective diet for building muscle should largely focus on dietary protein. This includes consuming whole foods that are rich in both nutrients and protein. A healthy diet for a person with diabetes will avoid added sugars, sweets, high sodium foods and foods high in saturated fats and trans fats. People with diabetes should include vegetables, fruits, grains, lean protein and non-fat or low-fat dairy. What is considered an “easy diet” will vary amongst different people—talk with your doctor about what eating plan would be easiest for you to follow based on the resources you have, such as cooking skills, budget and accessibility. Some research suggests a low-carb diet may have short-term metabolic benefits, but longer-term benefits are lacking. The best way to determine if a particular diet is right for you is to speak with your health care provider. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
			 
				Carolyn O’Neil connects the worlds of food, nutrition and cuisine with a love of global travel and cultural exploration. She is a member of the Delta Air Lines Culinary Council as a nutrition consultant to help update and guide the airline’s inflight menus, planning for special meals and wellness initiatives. She is also a member of the invite-only Google Food Lab, an international group of thought leaders in all areas of food from farming to finance.

Carolyn has been a professor of nutrition science and nutrition communication for Florida State University’s London Study Centre and professor of journalism for Emory University in Atlanta.  

Carolyn is the author of Southern Living’s best selling The Slim Down South Cookbook and co-author of The Dish on Eating Healthy and Being Fabulous, a winner at the World Food Media awards.  

She has also been honored by the National Restaurant Association, the American Heart Association, the American Society for Nutrition and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics for her pioneering work in nutrition communications. 

Her master’s degree in Nutrition is from Boston University and undergraduate degree in Foods and Nutrition is from Florida State University. Carolyn lives in Atlanta. 

			