Prudence ‘Prudy’ Clemishire Ciaccio ALTAMONT — An accomplished teacher and community contributor, Prudence “Prudy” Clemishire Ciaccio’s greatest love was for her family. She died peacefully on Sunday, July 23, 2023. She was 98 years old. Mrs. Ciaccio was born on June 18, 1925 in Albany to John W. Clemishire and Helen Blessing Clemishire.  “She loved her youth,” her family wrote in a tribute, “growing up on Melrose Avenue and then Myrtle Avenue. “In her first year of college, she met her husband, Charles, when her sweater shed onto his Navy uniform after he asked her to dance. She went on to receive a bachelor of arts degree from Wheelock College and married the love of her life, Chuck, in 1949, a marriage that lasted 72 wonderful years until Chuck’s death in 2021. “Chuck and Prudy briefly lived and taught in Camden, New York, but, after only a short time, returned to the Albany area when Chuck accepted a teaching position at Altamont High School. They settled in Altamont, eventually purchasing their home on Lincoln Avenue in 1960.  It was there that they raised their family. “In 2020, as a result of COVID and the untimely death of their son Craig, they moved to the Syracuse area to be closer to their daughter Karen and her husband, Dave. “Prudy was a busy substitute teacher in the Guilderland elementary schools when her children were young. After they were grown, she returned to full-time teaching at the Hebrew Academy, where she stayed until her retirement in 1983. “Prudy was always active in many volunteer organizations including the Cub Scouts, Meals on Wheels, and most significantly on the board of the Albany Guardian Society. She was at the helm as chairman when the Guardian Society transitioned from a perpetual care building in Albany to a large foundation dedicated to the improvement of the lives of senior citizens. “She was active in her church, St. Boniface in Guilderland, as well as in various clubs and organizations, including the Altamont Garden Club. “Prudy most enjoyed her friends. She was known for her frequent dinner and holiday parties, the multi- family clambake at the home on Lincoln Avenue, and all of the other fun times with her wonderful circle of friends. The ‘ladies’ remained friends for many decades and continued to get together for bridge games well into their 80s and 90s. “With all of these accomplishments, Prudy’s greatest love was her family. She was a dedicated and loving wife, mother, and grandmother. She was also a second mom to many of her kids’ friends who were frequently in and out of the house for lunch, dinner, or just to visit.” **** Prudence Clemishire Ciaccio is survived by her daughter, Karen (David) Cornelius of Syracuse, New York; son, Charles Jr. (Kathy) of Cape Coral, Florida; her four grandchildren, John, Josh (Samantha), Matt and Katy (Noah); her three great-granddaughters; and one great-grandson. Her parents, John and Helen, died before her, as did her husband, Charles; her son, Craig; her sister, Suzanne “Suzie,” and her grandson Charles III “CJ”. “The family wishes to thank the staff and many friends at the Nottingham in Jamesville, New York,” the tribute said, “where Prudy was a resident the last two years of her life. There, she was happy and lovingly cared for.” A celebration of her life will be held in Altamont in September. Memorial contributions may be made to the Loretto Foundation, 700 E Brighton Ave., Syracuse, NY 13205. Donations will be used to enhance the lives of seniors in the care of the Loretto family, including the Nottingham. KNOX — Barbara L. Dexter had physical limitations but “no limitations on life,” said her niece Amy Boyt. She died peacefully on Monday, July 29, 2024, at the age of 85. The Altamont Enterprise is focused on hyper-local, high-quality journalism. We produce free election guides, curate readers' opinion pieces, and engage with important local issues. Subscriptions open full access to our work and make it possible. Consider a subscription. Copyright © 2013 The Altamont Enterprise.
Albany County, New York