E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		  Fresh corn and flour tortillas are made daily. (Robin Northrup/Special to The Times)  Fresh corn and flour tortillas are made daily. (Robin Northrup/Special to The Times)  Owner Anna Martinez and employees pose for a picture in front of The Rooster Agro Foods. (Robin Northrup/Special to The Times)  The grocery area has fresh vegetables and other items available for purchase. (Robin Northrup/Special to The Times) Fresh corn and flour tortillas are made daily. (Robin Northrup/Special to The Times) The owners of El Jacal Mexican Grill, Juan and Anna Martinez, have started a new adventure, The Rooster Agro Food in Fort Morgan. It has already been a popular topic on Facebook, with people wanting to know what the new building is all about.The Rooster Agro Food, located at 903 South Main St., offers a large selection of take-out items. You can order from their freshly made entrees and add sides in three different meal sizes or you can also purchase items by the portion, container, or even by the pound.  Stop in and browse their take-out food, small grocery area, and beverage selection.“Agro Food means larger portions with consistent quality,” said Anna Martinez, co-owner.   “We want the food always to be consistent and fresh.  We are able to use this building to prepare large catering orders and food for the restaurant.  We also make our flour and corn tortillas fresh every day.”You won’t find the same selection of menu items at The Rooster that you may find at El Jacal Mexican Grill. They will always carry three or four main selections, including their fresh rotisserie chicken, and add in a couple of different items in daily. They can prepare orders for pick up and make most orders when you come in.Their menu selection will have four or five main entrees, along with a selection of sides.  They also offer freshly made salads and desserts.  They also make all of their corn and flour tortillas fresh daily.“We we have taken a lot of orders for large parties, weddings, and other types of catering. Our restaurant has a small kitchen, and this allows us to put out big orders without having to make the restaurant customers wait.  We can make items and have them available for pickup right here at The Rooster.”“This is a dream for us,” said Anna.  “23 years ago we moved here from Mexico.  We began with a food truck and three years later we opened El Jacal Mexican Grill.”The couple is very thankful for everyone that works for them.  “They have helped us to grow.  We are also very thankful for the employees this past year because they made it possible to be where we are right now.  We have employees that have been with us for 10 years.  When we first moved here, we didn’t have a car or a house.  We worked very hard and couldn’t do it without everyone here. ”

The Rooster is open at 6 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, 8 a.m. Monday through Friday and closes each day at 7 p.m.For breakfast you can choose from a selection of their freshly made breakfast items or even customize a burrito.  You can come in and order for yourself or you can take breakfast back to the office for everyone.If you would like to order items, call 970-542-5002. The Rooster Agro Food, located at 903 South Main St., offers a large selection of take-out items. You can order from their freshly made entrees and add sides in three different meal sizes or you can also purchase items by the portion, container, or even by the pound.  Stop in and browse their take-out food, small grocery area, and beverage selection. “Agro Food means larger portions with consistent quality,” said Anna Martinez, co-owner.   “We want the food always to be consistent and fresh.  We are able to use this building to prepare large catering orders and food for the restaurant.  We also make our flour and corn tortillas fresh every day.” You won’t find the same selection of menu items at The Rooster that you may find at El Jacal Mexican Grill. They will always carry three or four main selections, including their fresh rotisserie chicken, and add in a couple of different items in daily. They can prepare orders for pick up and make most orders when you come in. Their menu selection will have four or five main entrees, along with a selection of sides.  They also offer freshly made salads and desserts.  They also make all of their corn and flour tortillas fresh daily. “We we have taken a lot of orders for large parties, weddings, and other types of catering. Our restaurant has a small kitchen, and this allows us to put out big orders without having to make the restaurant customers wait.  We can make items and have them available for pickup right here at The Rooster.” “This is a dream for us,” said Anna.  “23 years ago we moved here from Mexico.  We began with a food truck and three years later we opened El Jacal Mexican Grill.” The couple is very thankful for everyone that works for them.  “They have helped us to grow.  We are also very thankful for the employees this past year because they made it possible to be where we are right now.  We have employees that have been with us for 10 years.  When we first moved here, we didn’t have a car or a house.  We worked very hard and couldn’t do it without everyone here. ” The Rooster is open at 6 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, 8 a.m. Monday through Friday and closes each day at 7 p.m. For breakfast you can choose from a selection of their freshly made breakfast items or even customize a burrito.  You can come in and order for yourself or you can take breakfast back to the office for everyone. If you would like to order items, call 970-542-5002. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group