LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Jason Biggs and Seann William Scott, known for their roles as Jim and Stifler in the popular 1999 comedy film 'American Pie' and its sequels, came together once again to star in a new advertisement for DoorDash. Fans were delighted as DoorDash's 'Summer of DashPass' promotional campaign had Biggs, 45, and Scott, 46, recreating the onscreen chemistry that had once made them famous.  Biggs expressed his excitement about working with Scott again. "Whenever we get back together, it is like we never missed a beat," he told People. "So this campaign, it was just like we literally picked up right where we left off, basically after the last movie." He also highlighted their incredible back-and-forth dynamic on screen.  In the ad, Biggs is seen welcoming a DoorDash delivery person to a home, proclaiming that it will be the best summer ever. Scott then appears from behind the delivery driver, playfully questioning Biggs' statement. Referring to their experiences in the 'American Pie' movies, Scott jokingly warns Biggs not to claim that this summer will be better than the one they spent together, reminiscing about the parties, pranks, and memorable moments they shared. Scott is then seen swiping a milkshake from Biggs and drinking it, before making an inside joke referring to one of the racy sequences in the X-rated comedy. "That's the second best thing that's ever happened in my mouth," Scott quips. "It's like they're making a bunch of little flavor babies in there."    Both Biggs and Scott have been part of the 'American Pie' franchise, appearing in four films together, namely, 'American Pie' (1999), 'American Pie 2' (2001), 'American Wedding' (2003), and 'American Reunion' (2012). Biggs reflected on their time shooting the films, describing it as a summer camp experience where they would come together for a few months to film and then eagerly await the release the following summer. Scott expressed his gratitude for the movies, noting that shooting them was an unparalleled experience in his career. Outside of their onscreen reunion, both actors have their own summer plans. Biggs shared that he intends to visit Austria with his wife Jenny Mollen and their two sons, while Scott plans to stay in California with his spouse Olivia Korenberg.  The 'American Pie' films featured a talented ensemble cast that included Alyson Hannigan, Chris Klein, Natasha Lyonne, Shannon Elizabeth, Mena Suvari, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Chris Owen, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Eugene Levy, and Jennifer Coolidge. "I have so much love for everybody, really in all the projects that I've worked on, but I'm just very close to everybody in American Pie," Scott told People. "It just makes me really happy just to see them doing different things, especially with Natasha, Jennifer, and Eugene, just seeing them all thrive. It's awesome."  The advertisement served as a nostalgic reminder of the comedic chemistry between Biggs and Scott, leaving fans excited to see their beloved actors together once again, even if only for a brief commercial appearance.  After the ad was posted on YouTube, fans rushed to comment on the video. "Love the American Pie Series! Great cast of actors! Seann has always been a hottie even more so now!" one commenter gushed. "I was waiting for Stifler's mom to appear," another quipped. "They need one with Kim Cattrall as Samantha. I just feel like it could work, especially since she's not part of And Just Like That which can be referenced," someone else offered.