Comment Gushwork.ai, a global platform that aims to advance business process outsourcing (BPO) using AI and human expertise, has raised $2.1 million in a pre-seed funding round led by Lightspeed. B Capital, Sparrow Capital, Seaborne Capital and Beenext also participated in backing the startup that launched in April this year. In recent years, companies have invested considerable amounts of money in hiring skilled professionals to oversee their operational processes, such as administration, HR, payroll management or customer support. An increasing alternative to in-house hiring is to engage with staffing agencies or BPOs to outsource operations or to use platforms, such as Upwork or Fiverr to find freelancers who can handle process-oriented tasks. However, this has become a significant cost factor due to ongoing inflation. Gushwork.ai strives to address this problem in the market using its AI-powered, cross-border platform. The startup provides a curated marketplace that features offshore workers trained in using various AI applications to help businesses carry out their processes efficiently. It lets entrepreneurs outsource their tedious workflows and focus only on strategically important tasks. Nayrhit Bhattacharya, co-founder and CEO of Gushwork.ai, calls the process “Uberizing the employee workforce,” as businesses can hire talent from different markets for their manually driven operational functions on a part-time basis. He co-founded Gushwork.ai with Adithya Venkatesh (CPO) in January with a usage-based pricing model. “Businesses don’t need to hire full-time,” Bhattacharya told TechCrunch in an interview. “They can use somebody for a few hours — three hours this week, 40 hours next week — and then not use it for another week.” Alongside offering part-time access to offshore talent, Gushwork.ai trains and equips its workforce with AI tools to make them fit for many workflows that were previously considered creative and not merely process-oriented to a large extent. These can be generating photorealistic blog designs, converting webinars to blogs, generating images for blog writing, writing blog posts on different topics or even doing search engine optimization. Generative AI tools have enabled large workforces to perform such creative tasks without requiring special skills. “You don’t need a 3D graphic designer per se, or you don’t need to spend three months trying to find the right 3D graphic designer or the photorealistic image copy generator on Upwork or Fiverr,” Bhattacharya noted. Gushwork.ai has trained its AI-augmented workforce to perform tasks, such as lead prospecting, email marketing, ad management, lead engagement on social media platforms, webinar moderation and marketing, social media management, responding to inbound leads, CRM setup, social media analytics data scraping, prospect outreach and ad campaign management, among others. These are all initially aimed at easing sales and marketing operations workflows. However, the startup also plans to expand into more specialized roles in the future. Within the first three months of operation, Gushwork.ai saw more than 50 businesses adopting its platform to delegate more than 200 complex workflows. Bhattacharya told TechCrunch that around 80% of its customers use the platform on an active basis every week, while almost 90% of them use it every month. The startup has its key outbound focus on small and medium businesses and bootstrapped startups in the U.S. and Canada that have a team size of two to 20-30 members. Bhattacharya said that as much as 80% of its current customer base comprises small and medium businesses. While developed economies are the dominating markets for Gushwork.ai, Bhattacharya said it saw nearly 20% of its customers from India as well. The startup also considers India and the Philippines the initial supply bases for its offshore talent, though it looks to set up its workforce base across different countries over time. “The era of remote work has unlocked a number of new job opportunities and workflows that can be executed from anywhere in the world. This transcends beyond the traditional IT services or BPO industry. Gushwork.ai is leveraging this tailwind of cross-border cost arbitrage and is building a unique platform for businesses to delegate some of their most complex workflows to an elite on-demand offshore workforce trained on AI tools and apps. We are excited to partner with the team as they innovate and revitalize the future of outsourcing with AI,” said Lightspeed partner Rahul Taneja in a prepared statement. In the next few months, Gushwork.ai plans to utilize the fresh funds to enhance quality control and data security and privacy. It also looks to build features to help businesses create and document their complex processes within Gushwork.ai’s platform and use them as large training datasets to automate a list of workflows. Further, it plans to invest some capital in content-led organic market and personal building channels to reach new customers. The startup currently has more than 25 full-time and part-time employees spread across three countries, with Bhattacharya based in Brooklyn and three founding members and co-founder Venkatesh in India’s Bengaluru. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP