Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Most fantasy video games and even other media tend to stay within medieval or past settings. This way, they get to set a more serious tone that won't clash with contemporary rules and norms. However, urban fantasy also exists; it's a fiction genre where fantasy elements are isekai'd or generously sprinkled into a contemporary urban city.
      Related: Tower Of Fantasy: Best Team Compositions
                     The result is an art form that establishes a clear dichotomy between fantasy and modernity. It can be rather tricky to establish certain rules for both of their base genres; but if done right, such a strong blend can result in some memorable cocktails like these following urban fantasy games.
      The Devil May Cry games have always been good examples of the urban fantasy genre. To even things out with the modern settings' military might, Devil May Cry introduced demons as the primary threat and it takes special fantasy beings to dispatch them. Devil May Cry 5 continues this tradition.
                         In the latest title in the series, players get to control three protagonists with demonic powers to stop the Demon King Urizen himself from destroying humanity. Devil May Cry 5 deserves the spotlight here because apart from having the best graphics in the series, it also breathed new life into the formula which was rather dated by the fourth game.
                         It's a game that adopts an anime style and comes with high school protagonists; thus, players can bet that the urban element as well as the fantasy element here is strong. One can't simply substitute Persona's urban setting for a medieval one and not ruin the game's narrative and gameplay.
      Related: Novel-Based Fantasy Worlds Ripe for MMOs
  Persona 5 is a rather proud example of this. As high schoolers in an anime-themed world, the players must lead the protagonist, Ren to uncover a conspiracy orchestrated by corrupt adults. On the fantasy side, Persona 5 and the older games feature magical attacks and even mythical creatures; on the contemporary side, players get to date NPCs in Shibuya.
      Bayonetta's story is rather convoluted but no matter how one understands it, it always takes place in a contemporary or urban setting. Well, at least that's the case for most of the three games. The first game was notable for introducing a new breed of action gameplay and protagonist to the genre.
                         As for why it takes place in a contemporary setting, the titular protagonist was actually awakened after five centuries of slumber. Turns out she's a Witch who was part of a long-standing war against Angels and this war has stretched well into the modern era. So it's not unusual to see Bayonetta fighting hairy monsters on a freeway or a skyscraper.
      Final Fantasy games love to mix up their genres and Final Fantasy 7 is a good example here. It has overt fantasy elements all crammed into a futuristic but also modern-looking cityscape. Its priority is its characters and storytelling, world cohesion is only second but even then, Midgar has its own charms.
      Related: Best Lesser Known Fantasy Books To Read During The Holidays
                     It's a city run by a greedy megacorporation named Shinra whose policies and actions have drawn the ire of a group of rebels who often take a shot at ruining Shinra's operations. To that end, it also doesn't shy away from cyberpunk themes. At the same time, it incorporates magical or elemental attacks, demons, familiars, and even godly beings.
                         An easy way to introduce fantasy with modernity is by sinking vampire fangs into the premise. That's why a lot of vampire stories take place in modern times. And Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a shining role model for this marriage of genres, at least in video games.
                         It has an elaborate lore about its vampires dating back to the biblical Cain and Abel. It just so happens that vampires fit right in with the contemporary setting. They're immortal anyway, so they might as well go with the flow and adjust to the rapidly-changing times. The player character in Bloodlines simply managed to get caught in their usual hedonism.
                         Speaking of vampires, Dark offers a more focused story on the matter. It follows the misadventures of a man named Eric Bane who was recently turned into a vampire. He wasn't that lucky, however, since Eric also struggled with amnesia in the process, which is cliche but there's no better way to create a self-insert element for players.
      Related: Best Dark Fantasy Manga With No Anime Adaptations
                     In any case, Eric needs to keep feeding on blood lest he turns into a mindless ghoul. This is certainly more difficult to follow in a contemporary setting— too many lights and busybodies. Apart from vampires, an angel is also present in the fray, often guiding Eric and acting as his conscience.
                         Other Mortal Kombat games could also count here, but Mortal Kombat 11 is most notable for the latest graphics and upping the stakes in its story. Mortal Kombat games mostly take place in a contemporary world and even feature modern Earth characters like Johnny Cage and Sonya.
                         The premise gets more chaotic when different dimensions and worlds are thrown into the mix. Suddenly, fighters from different dimensions came pouring into Earth (and vice versa) for a chance to compete in the titular tournament. Needless to say, there's no shortage of fantasy characters and magic in this game, from ice-cold killer ninjas to dragon hybrids.
      The Wolf Among Us takes the low-hanging fruit of importing fairy tale characters into a modern-day setting and creating a drama out of it. This is an episodic adventure game where players mostly pick dialogue and action options to proceed with their detective story.
                         Among its fantasy characters are fairy tale heavyweights such as the big bad wolf, Snow White, Woodsman, the Toad, and even Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum. Sure enough, all of them are typically dulled and deadened versions of themselves, worn down by the stress of modern life— almost unrecognizable from their fantasy book counterparts.
      More: Great Urban Fantasy Anime
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The Legend of Zelda franchise has featured of variety of memorable boss fights. These examples are some of the most epic in the series. The world of Cyberpunk 2077 has only been touched on, and anime is the perfect medium to give fans more of it. Game Rant speaks with the managing director of Game, the co-organizer of Gamescom, about the latter's history, growth, industry impact, and more. A Red Dead Redemption 2 player wraps up their 100% completion run in a perfect and emotional way, resonating with the game's community. Destiny 2 players may be taking a break until the final Act of Episode: Echoes releases, but the 2024 Solstice Event is arguably worth returning for.
 JJK's latest project could be one of the year's biggest anime announcements. Pokemon GO is adding a Generation 8 Pokemon to the game that will change how some battles play out.