DENVER — Starbucks can now be delivered to your door in Denver. DoorDash and Starbucks have partnered to offer delivery service in Denver beginning Tuesday, Jan. 31 Starbucks said customers can now order Starbucks for delivery through the DoorDash app on iOS or Android devices and DoorDash.com. The Colorado partnership follows positive feedback from a successful pilot in Atlanta, Houston and Sacramento last year, and expansion in Northern California, Texas, Georgia, Florida earlier this month.    Starbucks said the partnership will continue to launch in new markets over the coming months, with full national availability in all 50 states by March 2023. “As customer behaviors evolve, we continue to innovate the Starbucks Experience to connect with them through meaningful and valuable digital experiences. Our partnership with DoorDash allows us to provide our customers with another convenient way to enjoy Starbucks wherever they are," said Brooke O’Berry, Starbucks senior vice president of digital experiences. “Delivery continues to represent a significant growth opportunity for Starbucks, and we’re excited to reach more customers by partnering with DoorDash, a company known for their best in-class service.” “Our partnership with Starbucks connects even more neighborhoods across the United States with their favorite beverages and bites,” said Sanjay Kotte, DoorDash head of strategic partnerships. “When you combine the exceptional quality of Starbucks handcrafted beverages and food with the logistics power and geographic scale of DoorDash, the result is extraordinary for coffee lovers nationwide.”     SUGGESTED VIDEOS: Colorado Guide Watch more from 9NEWS on the free 9NEWS+ app for Roku and Fire TV. 9NEWS+ has multiple live daily shows including 9NEWS Mornings, Next with Kyle Clark and 9NEWS+ Daily, an original streaming program. 9NEWS+ is where you can watch live breaking news, weather updates, and press conferences. You can also replay recent newscasts and find videos on demand of our top stories, local politics, investigations and Colorado specific features. To download 9NEWS+ on Roku search for KUSA. To download 9NEWS+ on Fire TV search for 9NEWS. RELATED: Watch 9NEWS for free on ROKU, Apple TV, Fire TV Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     In Other News Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.