French designer Mathieu Lehanneur has revealed a symmetrical steel torch with a rippled texture informed by the River Seine for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. Lehanneur's design is the same in shape, colour and material for both the Olympic and Paralympic torches, a decision that was made to promote equality and that marks the first time both games have had the same torch design. Although Olympic and Paralympic torches typically share similarities in their designs, they usually have slight variations in shape or colour. For 2024, the Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games, the only difference between the two torches is the games' symbols – the Olympic rings decorate one of the torches and the Paralympic symbol, the agitos, the other. Both feature the Olympic emblem, a medal-shaped flame and a pair of lips. "As part of our strategy to build bridges between the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the latter already shared the same emblem and mascot with the former," said Tony Estanguet, president of the Paris 2024 games. "At Paris 2024, we will also have a single torch design." According to Estanguet, Paris 2024 also marks the first time that as many women are taking part in the games as men. Lehanneur aimed to represent this equality in the torch's design by making it symmetrical, both horizontally and vertically. "For Paris 2024, and for the first time in its history, it plays on perfect symmetry, speaking to us more clearly about equality," said Lehanneur. "I wanted it to be extremely pure, iconic, almost elemental," he continued. Manufactured by steel company ArcelorMittal, the torch has a warm champagne colour and is made from 100 per cent recycled scrap steel. It is 70 centimetres tall and has a symmetrical curving shape with a matte finish on the top half and a shiny, reflective finish on the bottom. The torch's curved silhouette expands from a minimum diameter of 3.5 centimetres at each end to a maximum diameter of 10 centimetres at the centre. Lehanneur designed the torch with gentle curves and a rounded silhouette intended to evoke peacefulness, while water and the River Seine informed the ripple effect and the reflective surface on one half of the torch. The majority of the torch's 1.5-kilogram weight is at its centre. This design was created to make it easier to carry than traditional top-heavy torches. The torch will carry the Olympic flame in a relay of 10,000 torchbearers across France before lighting a cauldron on 26 July 2024, signifying the start of the games. Once the Olympic games have closed, a second relay of 1,000 torchbearers will carry the Paralympic torch and flame and again light a cauldron for the commencement of the Paralympic games on 28 August. Previous iterations of the Olympic torch include a recycled aluminium torch for the 2016 games in Rio and the Tokyo 2020 torch, which was designed to resemble cherry blossoms. A quarterly newsletter rounding up a selection of recently launched products by designers and studios, published on Dezeen Showroom.  Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly, is sent every Tuesday and features a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and breaking news.  Sent every Thursday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and invitations to Dezeen events.  A daily newsletter containing the latest stories from Dezeen. Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Weekly updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. News about our Dezeen Awards programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates and invitations to Dezeen events. News about our Dezeen Awards China programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at [email protected]. For more details, please see our privacy notice.  You will shortly receive a welcome email so please check your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter. The venues set to host the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles "Destructive" Olympics should be shrunk to save carbon, say ... Multi-host Olympics would "completely undermine" the games ... Triptyque designs Team USA accommodation in Paris Olympic ... "Paris has had more than 100 years to prepare to host the ... Seine cleanup a "missed opportunity" says author of book on ... Paris 2024 Olympics sustainability efforts "not enough" says ... Fifteen Olympic architecture icons from the last 100 years Visit our comments page | Read our
comments policy
 Subscribe to our newsletters A quarterly newsletter rounding up a selection of recently launched products by designers and studios, published on Dezeen Showroom.  Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly, is sent every Tuesday and features a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and breaking news.  Sent every Thursday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and invitations to Dezeen events.  A daily newsletter containing the latest stories from Dezeen. Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Weekly updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. News about our Dezeen Awards programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates and invitations to Dezeen events. News about our Dezeen Awards China programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at [email protected]. For more details, please see our privacy notice. You will shortly receive a welcome email so please check your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter.