Global site navigation PAY ATTENTION: Enjoy reading our stories? Join YEN.com.gh's Telegram channel for more! Mixed reactions have greeted the decision of the Bank of Ghana (BoG) to ban the use of cedi notes for money bouquets and hampers. Ghanaians in their reaction to the announcement are spilt in their opinion over the decision of the Central Bank. Proponents of the directive say the move comes at the right time as it would save people from incurring huge losses in their attempt to appreciate loved ones on a special day. Read also BoG bans use of Ghana cedi notes for 'money bouquets', hampers PAY ATTENTION: Click “See First” under the “Following” tab to see YEN.com.gh News on your News Feed!  @kwekubills stated: @aleemkumi opined: On the other hand, critics of the directive have also opined that the Central Bank can not determine the way and manner in which people should spend their money. Others also said that the BoG should focus on pressing issues of national concern rather than meddling in the affairs of Ghanaians. @edwardo68 revealed: @guy_johnni said: @hollygoals intimated: Read also Free SHS meals not fit for dogs - Mahama slams gov't over poor food quality Earlier YEN.com.gh reported that the central bank has banned the use of cedi banknotes as bouquets and hampers, which is popular among the public as gifts on birthdays and other occasions.  The Bank of Ghana revealed that the use of high and low-denomination banknotes for “money bouquets” or “money hampers” as they are called locally spoil or deface the cedi notes.  He said the use of cedi notes for gift bouquets and hampers flout existing policy on Ghana's legal tender. He explained further that the defaced cedi banknotes are replaced at a high cost.  New feature: Сheck out news that is picked for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you”  and enjoy! Source: YEN.com.gh 

                Philip Boateng Kessie                                    (Human-Interest editor)
                            
Philip Boateng Kessie is a Human Interest editor at YEN.com.gh. He has over six years of experience in journalism. He graduated from the University of Cape Coast in 2018 with a bachelor's degree in Communication Studies. Philip previously served as a reporter for Graphic Communications Group Limited (GCGL). He also worked as a content writer for Scooper News. Email: philip.kessie@yen.com.gh.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you