e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 The San Diego Union-Tribune San Diego, CA, September 19, 2023: San Diego Padres pitcher Robert Suarez threw a scoreless eighth inning against the Colorado Rockies at Petco Park on Tuesday, September 19, 2023. (K.C. Alfred / The San Diego Union-Tribune) The San Diego Union-Tribune San Diego, CA - October 14: San Diego Padres relief pitcher Robert Suarez celebrates after striking out Los Angeles Dodgers' Max Muncy during the eighth inning in game 3 of the NLDS at Petco Park on Friday, Oct. 14, 2022 in San Diego, CA. (K.C. Alfred / The San Diego Union-Tribune) The San Diego Union-Tribune Peoria, AZ - February 17: Padres relief pitcher Robert Suarez (75) smiles during a spring training practice at Peoria Sports Complex on Friday, Feb. 17, 2023 in Peoria, AZ. (Meg McLaughlin / The San Diego Union-Tribune) The San Diego Union-Tribune Robert Suarez The San Diego Union-Tribune SAN DIEGO, CA - JULY 30: San Diego Padres' Robert Suarez throws against the Texas Rangers at Petco Park on Sunday, July 30, 2023 in San Diego. (K.C. Alfred / The San Diego Union-Tribune) San Diego, CA, September 19, 2023: San Diego Padres pitcher Robert Suarez threw a scoreless eighth inning against the Colorado Rockies at Petco Park on Tuesday, September 19, 2023. (K.C. Alfred / The San Diego Union-Tribune) Cutters, sliders and sweepers.That was a point of emphasis throughout staff as Ruben Niebla settled in last year in San Diego, but that’s not that’s on his radar as the Padres’ second-year pitching coach minds the shop.Take, for instance, Robert Suarez.Niebla certainly was considering the 33-year-old reliever as he arrived in camp in February.The last time anyone had seen Suarez on a diamond was in the background last October as Bryce Harper circled the bases in the eighth inning at Citizens Bank Park in Game 5 of the NLCS, so the 51-year-old Niebla broached the topic early in spring training to gauge his headspace.Suarez didn’t bite.Still doesn’t. He didn’t even watch many replays of the home run or the change-up that Harper should have swung at.

“I mean that was something that happened,” Suarez said through interpreter Danny Sanchez. “It’s over with. It’s in the past and it’s something that you learn from. It’s something that obviously I’ve taken lessons from that. But really, I’ve been focused on this season, you know, being present in 2023 and what I can control this year.”It has, however, taken some time to do that.Elbow inflammation pushed off Suarez’s 2023 debut until after the All-Star break and a sticky-stuff suspension sidelined him for 10 days this month.The 32-year-old right-hander denied wrongdoing at the time of his ejection, dropped his appeal when rosters expanded on Sept. 1 and since his return has looked every bit as dominant as he did last fall. Over five appearances since re-activation, Suarez has struck out nine and walked just one; he has not allowed a hit over 5 1/3 innings.The velocity is up. The ride is back. The sinker is sinking and the change-up is moving. Simply put: The rust has been knocked off as Suarez has lowered his ERA to 4.15 as he looks to finish 2023 strong. “Overall, I feel good,” Suarez said. “Obviously, I think my main goal is to help the team. That’s what I’m here for is to be able to be there for the team and help them in whatever way that I can. So again, you know, just really focusing in on my preparations and making sure that I can be the best pitcher that I can be for the team.”The Padres are banking on more of that moving forward.The club is planning to pare down this year’s $253 million payroll, and the bullpen is one place with bloat. The Padres are paying closer Josh Hader, Suarez and the perpetually-injured Drew Pomeranz $34.1 million this season. Between them, they’ve covered just 73 2/3 innings.Hader earned his $14.1 million by averaging pairing 15.2 strikeouts per nine innings with a 2.71 ERA over 332 2/3 innings the previous six seasons in the majors.Suarez is in the first year of a five-year, $46-million deal. He essentially earned his multi-year contract after returning from last year’s knee injury, pitching 13 1/3 scoreless innings to cap the regular season then striking out five over six high-leverage postseason innings to help the Padres slip past the favored Mets and Dodgers. Even after allowing the NLCS-clinching homer to Harper — who spit on a world-class change-up before doing what Hall-of-Fame players do — it was a foregone conclusion that Suarez would opt out of the rookie deal that Padres gave him at the end of the most unusual path to the majors. The contract that the former construction worker/security guard signed in November was a life-changing event.“It was incredible,” Suarez said. “It was awesome for me and my family. It’s something that I’m super appreciative to the organization for the contract and to be able to support my family.”No time like the present to make good on it.The bullpen will lose Hader and Luis Garcίa to free agency, not to mention the fleeting hope that Pomeranz could justify even a percentage of his four-year, $34 million deal. Nick Martinez could return as a starting pitcher or he could be gone entirely, too. Tim Hill could also be cut loose to avoid dishing out an arbitration raise on this year’s $1.85 million salary.In other words, the Padres will have to address the bullpen as well as a Blake Snell-sized hole in the rotation. Toward that end, Steven Wilson and Tom Cosgrove have emerged as viable homegrown options. Former Royals closer Scott Barlow is under team control through 2024 after arriving at the deadline. The Padres also figure to mine the lower rungs of free agency for bargains similar to the one Suarez presented before last season.Suarez himself can solve a giant question if he can show he’s ready to succeed Hader as the Padres’ closer.They’re certainly paying him like a closer and he has the stuff for the profile — a four-seamer that can hit triple digits, a heavy sinker, fading change-up and slider/cutter — even if his soft-spoken nature isn’t exactly akin to a fire-breathing Rob Dibble atop the mound.Then again, Suarez’s demeanor could be an asset, too, as Niebla learned after watching Suarez rebound from last year’s opening day implosion and move forward after allowing last year’s season-ending home run to Harper.The want-to is there, too. But Suarez is as averse to looking forward as he is to reliving last year’s season-ending home run.“I think we’re still a ways away from that,” he said. “For me, I’m just focused on finishing this season strong. We’ll see what happens, but I think if presented with that opportunity I’m going to be ready and I’m going to do what I can to do my best.” That was a point of emphasis throughout staff as Ruben Niebla settled in last year in San Diego, but that’s not that’s on his radar as the Padres’ second-year pitching coach minds the shop. Take, for instance, Robert Suarez. Niebla certainly was considering the 33-year-old reliever as he arrived in camp in February. The last time anyone had seen Suarez on a diamond was in the background last October as Bryce Harper circled the bases in the eighth inning at Citizens Bank Park in Game 5 of the NLCS, so the 51-year-old Niebla broached the topic early in spring training to gauge his headspace. Suarez didn’t bite. Still doesn’t.  He didn’t even watch many replays of the home run or the change-up that Harper should have swung at. “I mean that was something that happened,” Suarez said through interpreter Danny Sanchez. “It’s over with. It’s in the past and it’s something that you learn from. It’s something that obviously I’ve taken lessons from that. But really, I’ve been focused on this season, you know, being present in 2023 and what I can control this year.” It has, however, taken some time to do that. Elbow inflammation pushed off Suarez’s 2023 debut until after the All-Star break and a sticky-stuff suspension sidelined him for 10 days this month. The 32-year-old right-hander denied wrongdoing at the time of his ejection, dropped his appeal when rosters expanded on Sept. 1 and since his return has looked every bit as dominant as he did last fall. Over five appearances since re-activation, Suarez has struck out nine and walked just one; he has not allowed a hit over 5 1/3 innings. The velocity is up. The ride is back. The sinker is sinking and the change-up is moving.  Simply put: The rust has been knocked off as Suarez has lowered his ERA to 4.15 as he looks to finish 2023 strong.  “Overall, I feel good,” Suarez said. “Obviously, I think my main goal is to help the team. That’s what I’m here for is to be able to be there for the team and help them in whatever way that I can. So again, you know, just really focusing in on my preparations and making sure that I can be the best pitcher that I can be for the team.” The Padres are banking on more of that moving forward. The club is planning to pare down this year’s $253 million payroll, and the bullpen is one place with bloat. The Padres are paying closer Josh Hader, Suarez and the perpetually-injured Drew Pomeranz $34.1 million this season. Between them, they’ve covered just 73 2/3 innings. Hader earned his $14.1 million by averaging pairing 15.2 strikeouts per nine innings with a 2.71 ERA over 332 2/3 innings the previous six seasons in the majors. Suarez is in the first year of a five-year, $46-million deal. He essentially earned his multi-year contract after returning from last year’s knee injury, pitching 13 1/3 scoreless innings to cap the regular season then striking out five over six high-leverage postseason innings to help the Padres slip past the favored Mets and Dodgers.  Even after allowing the NLCS-clinching homer to Harper — who spit on a world-class change-up before doing what Hall-of-Fame players do — it was a foregone conclusion that Suarez would opt out of the rookie deal that Padres gave him at the end of the most unusual path to the majors.  The contract that the former construction worker/security guard signed in November was a life-changing event. “It was incredible,” Suarez said. “It was awesome for me and my family. It’s something that I’m super appreciative to the organization for the contract and to be able to support my family.” No time like the present to make good on it. The bullpen will lose Hader and Luis Garcίa to free agency, not to mention the fleeting hope that Pomeranz could justify even a percentage of his four-year, $34 million deal. Nick Martinez could return as a starting pitcher or he could be gone entirely, too. Tim Hill could also be cut loose to avoid dishing out an arbitration raise on this year’s $1.85 million salary. In other words, the Padres will have to address the bullpen as well as a Blake Snell-sized hole in the rotation. Toward that end, Steven Wilson and Tom Cosgrove have emerged as viable homegrown options. Former Royals closer Scott Barlow is under team control through 2024 after arriving at the deadline.  The Padres also figure to mine the lower rungs of free agency for bargains similar to the one Suarez presented before last season. Suarez himself can solve a giant question if he can show he’s ready to succeed Hader as the Padres’ closer. They’re certainly paying him like a closer and he has the stuff for the profile — a four-seamer that can hit triple digits, a heavy sinker, fading change-up and slider/cutter — even if his soft-spoken nature isn’t exactly akin to a fire-breathing Rob Dibble atop the mound. Then again, Suarez’s demeanor could be an asset, too, as Niebla learned after watching Suarez rebound from last year’s opening day implosion and move forward after allowing last year’s season-ending home run to Harper. The want-to is there, too. But Suarez is as averse to looking forward as he is to reliving last year’s season-ending home run. “I think we’re still a ways away from that,” he said. “For me, I’m just focused on finishing this season strong. We’ll see what happens, but I think if presented with that opportunity I’m going to be ready and I’m going to do what I can to do my best.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group