Ohio State has recruited Bishop Gorman High School previously — Does Tate Martell ring a bell? They are now after another prospect from the Nevada powerhouse high school program in offensive tackle Douglas Utu. The 6-foot, 5-inch, 270-pound lineman is one of the best in the country, the No. 6 tackle and 57th overall player according to the 247Sports Composite Rankings. Utu brings plenty of versatility to his game, not only does he have the ability to play either tackle, he could slide inside to guard if needed. The Buckeyes have recently had a lot of success with a player like that with Paris Johnson Jr., and Utu could be next as he was offered a scholarship after a conversation with offensive line coach Justin Frye. For the best local Columbus news, sports, entertainment and culture coverage, subscribe to The Columbus Dispatch. After a great conversation with @CoachJFrye I am truly honored and blessed to receive an offer from Ohio State University!#AGTG #JURY #GoBuckeyes @BishopGormanFB @GregBiggins @BrandonHuffman @BlairAngulo @ChadSimmons_ @adamgorney @wilson_utu @AneUtu pic.twitter.com/QDDrfCPHsq — Douglas Utu (@UtuDouglas) April 26, 2023 It’s never easy for schools in the Midwest to go out west and successfully recruit a player, but if there is one school that can do it, it’s Ohio State. The Buckeyes hopefully can get Utu to visit in the near future. Contact/Follow us @BuckeyesWire on Twitter, and like our page on Facebook to follow ongoing coverage of Ohio State news, notes, and opinion. Follow Michael Chen on Twitter. Story originally appeared on Buckeye Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Avoid these five common mistakes fantasy football managers make! Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC.