Once common on tickets and cardkeys the magnetic stripe is being phased out. New farming techniques have seen a rapid expansion of makhana or fox nuts in northern India. Rising rents, e-commerce and available property are contributing to a boom in self-storage. The makers of athletics tracks are tweaking their surfaces to make them faster. AI with dogfighting ability is being developed by the UK and US air forces. New farming techniques have seen a rapid expansion of makhana or fox nuts in northern India. Australia's iron ore and coal have powered major economies. Many hope that hydrogen could follow. In Iceland a new plant is capturing and storing CO2 directly from the atmosphere. Rising rents, e-commerce and available property are contributing to a boom in self-storage. In a struggling games industry AI has been hailed as a possible saviour. But not everyone's convinced. Fast and free, India's UPI payments system has been a big success, but has attracted scammers. Governments are experimenting with AI chatbots that can give help and advice. A Texas start-up is developing cargo gliders that would be towed behind a jet. Researchers are seeing how fast data can be delivered amid rising demand for bandwidth. Outsourcing computing to the cloud is a huge business, but some firms have said it's not for them. New technology promises TV and phone screens that use much less electricity than current models. Computers built like brains could be much more energy efficient than current designs. If TikTok is banned in the US, where might its social shoppers go? Storing information with holograms and in glass is being proposed to deal with a deluge of data. Once common on tickets and cardkeys the magnetic stripe is being phased out. New farming techniques have seen a rapid expansion of makhana or fox nuts in northern India. In Iceland a new plant is capturing and storing CO2 directly from the atmosphere. Rising rents, e-commerce and available property are contributing to a boom in self-storage. The makers of athletics tracks are tweaking their surfaces to make them faster. AI with dogfighting ability is being developed by the UK and US air forces. In a struggling games industry AI has been hailed as a possible saviour. But not everyone's convinced. Fast and free, India's UPI payments system has been a big success, but has attracted scammers. Governments are experimenting with AI chatbots that can give help and advice. Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.  