GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES More on KentOnline News you can trust 21°C | 9°C 5 day forecast   Home   Dover   News   Article A fast food restaurant has shut down after health inspectors discovered a “widespread infestation of rodents”. Tower Kebab in Dover, has permanently closed after failing a food standards agency (FSA) evaluation. Officials said “urgent improvement was required” at the Tower Hamlets Road site after they found rodent droppings in the food preparation area. “There is widespread infestation of rodents throughout the premises,” the inspectors wrote. “Droppings were found in food preparation area, rear preparation room and in the basement, and there was no antibacterial spray, hand wash or food safety management system on site.” Prior to its closure, Tower Kebab had mixed reviews online, with many commenting about slow service and poor quality food. “Absolutely rank... my cat’s food would probably taste better, disgusting,” commented one customer. “The food was cold and spilling out everywhere and looked like it had been half eaten, hardly any meat, which tasted weird,” added another. Photos taken by FSA inspectors show rat droppings littered across the floors of the restaurant kitchen and basement. Other evidence showed a plug socket coated in mould and grime and a dirty sink cluttered with plastic containers. The restaurant’s owner was told to deep-clean the premises using antibacterial spray and seek help from pest control before returning to serve customers. “You must not reopen until an officer from public protection has inspected and put it in writing,” warned the inspector. But having closed voluntarily, following the damming report on March 7, the restaurant is now showing as “permanently closed”. Trying to find the right nursery, school, college, university or training provider in Kent or Medway? Our Education Directory has everything you could possibly need! This website and its associated newspaper are members of the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) © KM Group 2024