Popularly known as Pele or Edson, Arantes do Nascimento was in the hospital and had been battling cancer since November.  His family spent Christmas with him while he was still admitted as his health condition worsened.  He passed away at age of 82 on 30th December 2022. His agent Joe Fraga confirms his death. A post shared by Pelé (@pele)     Due to Pele's health condition, his family decided to spend this Christmas in the hospital with him when the daughter of Brazilian soccer legend Pele, Kely Cristina do Nascimento, hospital posted on Instagram late Friday an emotional tribute and a photo of her father at the Albert Einstein Jewish Hospital in São Paulo.   "Time flies... (but) happy moments are eternal,"     Source: Instagram  The image showed Pele next to his daughters Kely Cristina , Jennifer, and Flavia.   "Our Christmas at home has been suspended," Nascimento wrote in a post on Wednesday. "We decided with the doctors that, for several reasons, it would be better for us to stay (in the hospital), with all the care that this new family ... Einstein gives us!".   The 82-year-old was admitted on November 29 for a respiratory infection and "re-evaluation of chemotherapy treatment on colon cancer identified in September 2021," according to a hospital statement. The hospital earlier this week reported that Pele's health had worsened and that he would now require further care due to the progression of cancer.  The 82-year-old icon Pele was going through treatment for a colon tumor, and the legendary footballer has been undergoing regular chemotherapy since the time he was diagnosed with colon cancer last year. Edson Arantes do Nascimento or popularly known as Pele and was born on October 23, 1940, in Três Corações, Brazil.  Titled 'the greatest' by FIFA. The Brazilian football player is a national treasure and one of the best-paid athletes in the world since the start of his era.   The football player was part of many Brazilian national teams that won three World Cup championships in 1958, 1962, and 1970.   ALSO READ: Jiang Zemin Biography: Early life, Family, Career and More Vikram Kirloskar, Biography: Vice Chairperson Of Toyota Kirloskar Motor, Early Life, Career, Family And More The footballer was not only one of the most gifted athletes of his generation but also a mild-mannered man who used his fame and prestige for a positive effect.   ALSO READ: Stan Lee Biography: Find Out About The Marvel Icon On His 100th Birthday! Jamsetji Tata Biography: Birth, Early Life, Education, Career, Major Works, Legacy, Quotes, and More GK Quiz on Famous Athletes all around the world : Find out Facts and more!   Get here current GK and GK quiz questions in English and Hindi for India, World, Sports and Competitive exam preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Current Affairs App. RUHS BSc Nursing Answer Key 2024: बीएससी नर्सिंग परीक्षा उत्तर कुंजी ruhsraj.org पर जल्द, यहां देखें PDF डाउनलोड करने का Direct Link  UPSC NDA 2 Admit Card 2024 Soon at upsc.gov.in; Check Exam Details   UP Police Constable Admit Card 2024 Live Update: आज शाम 5 बजे से डाउनलोड करें यूपी पुलिस के एडमिट कार्ड, यहाँ देखें सभी डाउनलोड लिंक   इंडिया पोस्ट GDS रिजल्ट 2024 घोषित, यहां देखें Circle-wise 1st मेरिट लिस्ट PDF  JPSC Recruitment 2024: Apply Online For 170 Forest Range Officer Posts, Check application process   Indore University Result 2024 OUT: देवी अहिल्या विश्वविद्यालय  परिणाम घोषित, यहां देखें UG, PG सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट   ICC WTC Points Table (2023-2025): Latest World Test Championship Standings and Ranking  MP Board Class 10 Latest Syllabus 2024-25: Download Subject-Wise Pdfs For Free  JNCU Result 2024 OUT: जननायक चंद्रशेखर यूनिवर्सिटी BA, MA, MSc, BCom, MCom सहित अन्य सेमेस्टर रिजल्ट घोषित, ये रहा Direct Link  ICSE Class 10 Environmental Applications Specimen Question Paper 2024-25: Download PDF With Marking Scheme   Himachal Pradesh University Result 2024 OUT: यहां देखें BCom, BSc Nursing, MBBS, MSc, BDS सहित अन्य UG, PG मार्कशीट, Direct Link  Bihar Police BPSSC SI Marksheet 2024 OUT: BPSSC सब इंस्पेक्टर फाइनल रिजल्ट के साथ यहां से डाउनलोड करें मार्कशीट  MJPRU Result 2024 OUT: यहां देखें BA, BSc, BTech, BCom, BCA, MA, MSc, MCom सहित सभी UG & PG, Annual & सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट PDF   Difference between Catholic and Christian  UP Police Admit Card 2024: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  India Post GDS Result 2024 OUT at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in: Download Circle-wise 1st Merit List Here  India Post GDS Result 2024 Released: इंडिया पोस्ट जीडीएस की पहली मेरिट लिस्ट जारी, यहाँ देखें सभी सर्किल का PDF Link   Math Puzzle: You have a high IQ if you can solve this math puzzle in 12 seconds!  Brain Teaser: Only High IQ Sherlocks Can Find the Hidden Different Emoji in This Brain Teaser  Picture Puzzle IQ Test: Spot the Seal Hidden Among Penguins in Just 12 Seconds! 