Trending Now:  ›   ›  Steve Chen — Complete Biography, History, and Inventions   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Austin S. |  Leave a comment  The number of websites on the internet changes every second, but there are currently over one billion. Out of all these sites, few are household names, with Facebook and YouTube being the largest social media sites in the world. Internet entrepreneur Steve Chen worked at Facebook in its early years. And he was one of three co-founders of YouTube. It started with a simple conversation between friends, wherein Chen or Jawed Karim suggested creating a website where users could easily upload videos to share with others. Today, you’d be hard-pressed to find someone who hasn’t watched a video on YouTube.  As of 2023, social media users view 100 million clips and upload 65,000 new videos daily. Globally, 57.63% of active social media users access the site. Let’s find out more about one of the great minds behind YouTube and other ventures. ©s_bukley/Shutterstock.com Steven Shih Chen is an internet entrepreneur, most notably known as a co-founder of YouTube. He was also the Chief Technology Officer as well. He also co-founded AVOS Systems, built MixBit, and in 2014, joined Google Ventures. Steve Chen was born Chen Shih-Chun in Taipei, Taiwan, on August 25, 1978. His father ran a successful trading business in Taiwan and decided to move the family to the United States in 1984 to further his company’s prospects. Chen attended a private school in Taiwan as a child, and after arriving in Illinois when the family’s immigration was complete, he continued his education at a public school in the United States. Later, Chen attended Washington Middle School in Aurora, Illinois, and then went on to West Aurora High School for a couple of years before transferring to the more prestigious Illinois Math and Science Academy (IMSA). It was at IMSA that his education first included computer programming and other related concepts. After IMSA, Chen enrolled in the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and took courses in computer science for several years. One of the interesting facts about Steve Chen is that his college education was not a success by traditional standards. Although he completed nearly every requirement for graduation, Chen never earned a bachelor’s degree. Instead, he dropped out in 1998 with only a few months remaining to graduate. This was no unplanned dropout, however. Rather, Chen had received a job offer from Max Levchin, a graduate of the University of Illinois who was now working in the tech industry in California. Despite his family’s reservations, Chen took the offer and began work at Confinity, the company that would soon become PayPal (see also: Paypal: Complete Guide). ©Ralf Liebhold/Shutterstock.com At PayPal, Chen worked as a software engineer, gaining important experience in the still fledgling world of Silicon Valley tech startups. More importantly, PayPal is where Chen started to make connections to people who would continue to be an important part of his career. Chad Hurley and Jawed Karim, the other two co-founders of YouTube, are certainly amongst the biggest of these connections. Outside of Hurley and Karim, PayPal is also where Steve Chen became friends and coworkers with the PayPal Mafia, a group of men who worked at PayPal during the time that Max Levchin and Peter Thiel were at the helm of the company (see also: The PayPal Mafia). Although the group was not called the PayPal Mafia until a photo shoot in 2007, after most had left the company, it is undeniable that many of the men involved have gone on to become big figures in Silicon Valley. After eBay acquired PayPal in 2000, Chen, Hurley, and Karim continued to work there for several years. At the same time, however, they were exploring other avenues. For Steve Chen, this involved a brief stint at Facebook during its early years of operation (see also: The History of Facebook). All three men soon decided to leave working for other companies behind, however, and start their own business venture. ©Chubo – my masterpiece/Shutterstock.com Throughout their time at PayPal, Steve Chen, Chad Hurley, and Jawed Karim regularly met up to talk about technology and company ideas. At one of these discussions, Chen or Karim suggested the idea of creating a website to allow people to easily upload video files and share them with others. Soon after, the three men co-founded YouTube (see also: The History of YouTube). To begin with, the new company ran out of the three men’s garages and involved many of the other friends and coworkers they knew from PayPal. After the company began to succeed, it moved into real offices. Throughout his time at YouTube, Chen was the company’s, Chief Technology Officer. When the company sold to Google in 2006, just a short 13 months after its initial creation, Chen earned several million dollars in Google shares but continued working at the company until sometime in 2009 (see also: The History of Google). ©iStock.com/Shutter2U After departing YouTube in 2009, Chen started a new company called AVOS Systems with cofounder Chad Hurley. AVOS worked on several projects simultaneously, among them a video-sharing service called MixBit that would allow users to upload short clips and edit other users’ clips together to create longer videos. Chen did not work much on MixBit, which was Hurley’s project, and the company eventually ceased operations in 2014, with MixBit becoming its own company instead. Chen’s next venture was Nom Labs, another video-based website. Nom Labs had a very specific focus, serving as a way to share professionally made cooking videos. Chen was its founder and chief technology officer throughout its lifespan from 2014-2017 when it was closed down. From 2014 to 2018, Chen also worked as a consultant for Google Ventures, a Google spinoff focused on providing capital to new startups. With several successful startups and a few that didn’t make a big splash under his belt, Chen was able to use this time to share his expertise and knowledge with a new generation of Silicon Valley founders while benefiting from the energy and passion they brought to tech entrepreneurship. Chen has led a very high-profile tech career, but of all his many accomplishments, two stand out as the things for which he is best known. These are as a member of the influential PayPal Mafia and as one of the co-founders of YouTube. Steve Chen is an influential member of the PayPal Mafia, a group of extremely successful Silicon Valley entrepreneurs who all started working at PayPal under Max Levchin and Peter Thiel. Steve Chen’s net worth of about $380 million makes him one of the PayPal Mafia’s more successful members, although he is still worth a lot less than the billionaires on the list, which include Elon Musk and Max Levchin himself (see also: Elon Musk: Complete Biography). Steve Chen is probably best known as one of the three co-founders of YouTube. After the company’s founding, he served as its Chief Technology Officer. Chen’s contributions to YouTube helped shape it into an era-defining site that has completely revolutionized how people today use the Internet to share videos and their personal lives. Chen’s net worth stems largely from his success in founding YouTube and then selling it to Google. After starting the video company with Chad Hurley and Jawed Karim, Chen was able to sell it to Google for $1.65 billion, receiving about $326 million dollars in Google stocks. In 2008, Steve Chen visited Korea to promote YouTube. There, he met and immediately fell for a marketing manager at Google Korea called Park Ji-Hyun. The two dated and were quickly married, with Park taking on the name Jamie Chen. Chen and his wife have two children, one of whom was born in 2010. However, no public information is available about the family. Despite his high profile, Steve Chen lives a life that does not make major news headlines and is relatively out of the public eye. After his marriage in 2008, he and his wife lived in San Francisco through 2019. Sometime in 2019, Chen and his family moved back to his native Taipei, Taiwan, where they still currently live. In 2014, Steve Chen was among a number of recipients of the Carnegie Foundation’s “Great Immigrants” award, which celebrates achievements and contributions by immigrants to American society. “YouTube is a platform, a distribution vehicle.” “There are a lot of services trying to solve the information discovery problem, and no one has got it right yet.” “There are lots of new products and new services making adding content easier. But there are not many people on the other side helping users digest that content.” “Everybody carries a phone with them, but they may not have a computer.” “Every user has something to say.” As a member of the PayPal Mafia and a co-founder of YouTube, Steve Chen has worked alongside many high profile people, such as Elon Musk, Jawed Karim, Peter Thiel, Jeremy Stoppelman, Chad Hurley, and Luke Nosek. Although Elon Musk is undoubtedly well-known for his role as a co-founder of Tesla, he is also prominent in the space industry. He is the founder and CEO of SpaceX and it is his goal to make space travel more affordable and accessible. Peter Thiel is another well-known contemporary of Steve Chen and is a co-founder of the Founders Fund which has invested in the startup of many high-profile businesses, such as Spotify and Airbnb. The image featured at the top of this post is ©iStock.com/Shutter2U. Who is Steve Chen?  Steve Chen, born Chen Shih-Chun, is an American entrepreneur and software engineer. After working at PayPal in the late 1990s and early 2000s, Chen was one of the three co-founders of video website YouTube. Since the company’s sale to Google in 2006, Chen has continued to work in tech, starting new companies and offering entrepreneurship advice to newer startups.  Is Steve Chen a Millionaire? Steve Chen is a millionaire, with a net worth of approximately $380 million as of December 2021. Much of this net worth comes through Chen’s shares in Google, of which he received approximately $326 million worth when selling YouTube in November 2006. Who is Steve Chen's wife? Steve Chen’s wife, Jamie Chen, was born Park Ji-hyun. According to reporting in Korean newspaper Chosun Daily, the two met while Chen was visiting Korea to promote YouTube in 2008 and were quickly married after “a whirlwind romance.” Park was a product marketing manager at Google Korea at the time. Why did Steve Chen create YouTube? The origin story of YouTube is unclear, with several different versions in existence. All share one common thread, though, which is the fact that prior to YouTube’s launch in 2005 it was difficult to find videos of public events online. Steve Chen, along with cofounders Chad Hurley and Jawed Karim, wanted to make it easy for people to share videos. What is Steve Chen's legacy? Chen is still very active in tech entrepreneurship, so it’s hard to say yet what his final legacy will be. His contributions to YouTube and Google Ventures in particular will likely be an important part, however, and his immigration status to the US means he will continue to be an inspirational figure to those who look to America as a land of opportunity. What year did Steve Chen leave Taiwan? Steve Chen moved to Illinois from Taiwan in 1986 at the age of eight, when his father decided that immigration to the United States was essential to expanding his successful trading business. Many sources suggest that Chen did not move to Illinois with his family until he was 15, in 1995. It’s not clear why this misinformation is so prevalent, but Chen attended middle and high school in Illinois, so it is definitely incorrect. Does Steve Chen work for Equinox Holdings? Steve Chen’s first and last name are fairly common. It’s important to realize that the Steve Chen who works as a senior sales manager at Equinox Holdings is not the same as the Steve Chen who co-founded YouTube. Equinox Holdings is not a tech company, but a company that “creates and operates upscale fitness clubs” based in New York City. Although someone named Steve Chen does work for Equinox Holdings, it isn’t the same person. Ever since my first Commodore 64 home computer I've been hooked on all things tech. I love building my own gaming PC and spend hours researching the best GPUs for each. I write extensively about electric vehicles, autonomous driving, and battery tech. When not writing about tech, gaming, and EVs I read and watch science fiction. Dune is a masterpiece. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *    Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.     Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Related Articles  Updated: May 11, 2023 by Austin S.   Chad Hurley is a member of a group of men that is commonly referred to as the PayPal Mafia. This […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Austin S.   Key Points
It’s hard to imagine, but YouTube was launched just 18 years ago. Before then, there was no such thing […]   Updated: September 7, 2023 by Dana Mayor   Key Points
The History of YouTube: What to Know YouTube (an American online video sharing platform owned by Google) was launched on […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Kellianne Matthews   Key Points
PayPal is an innovative payment platform that has revolutionized the way we send and receive money online. Founded in […]   Updated: April 16, 2024 by Hannah Ward   Key Points Who is Luke Nosek?
Luke Nosek is a Polish-American entrepreneur and venture capitalist known primarily for being one of the […]   Updated: August 5, 2023 by Austin S.   Key Points
Max Levchin probably isn’t a name you know. But, if you’re like most Americans, you’ve probably sent or received […]   Updated: April 16, 2024 by Hannah Ward   Key Points
Roelof Botha is a South African businessman who is best known for being a co-founder of PayPal. He was […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Heather   Key Points
Some of the richest, most powerful men in America are members of the PayPal Mafia, founders and employees of […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Lisha Pace   Key Points
Jared Kopf is an American businessman who is best known for his instrumental role in the development of the […]   Updated: April 16, 2024 by Hannah Ward   Key Points
Peter Thiel is an entrepreneur who is best known as the co-founder of the popular digital wallet, PayPal. Following […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Lisha Pace   Key Points
Ken Howery is a successful American businessman who is best known for his role as one of the five […]   Updated: August 5, 2023 by Austin S.   Key Points
Russel Simons is best known for being a member of the PayPal mafia, a group of PayPal alumnus who […]   Updated: May 15, 2023 by Heather   The PayPal Mafia is made up of a group of men — and, yes, they’re all men — who were […]   Updated: May 15, 2023 by Lisha Pace   David O. Sacks is a member of the so-called PayPal Mafia, the group of men who were founders or early […]   Updated: August 6, 2023 by Heather   Key Points
Jeremy Stoppelman is an American businessman and computer engineer.  He is well known for his involvement with the popular […]  Popular Articles The Snipers with the Most Confirmed Kills 3 weeks ago Elon Musk vs. Jeff Bezos: Net Worth, Rivalries, and More 9 months ago Images That Show Us Life in a World War 1 Trench 1 week ago Exploring history's stories and how they shape us. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. Learn more about us & read our affiliate disclosure.