Genius tips, tricks & beautiful things, straight to your inbox every day. © 2010-2021 Wow Media Products, Inc doing business as PureWow. All rights reserved. TV lovers have gotten pretty good at spotting editing mistakes in their favorite television shows. We’ve seen viewers point out errors in shows like Game of Thrones, Outer Banks and The Last of Us. And in the same vein, when changes are made to the royal family website, we can count on royal aficionados to make sure the info is accurate and up to date. Case in point: Royally-obsessed fans noticed a big error in the bio of Prince Harry (38) and Meghan Markle’s (41) son, Prince Archie, three full months ago. But the worst part? It still hasn't been corrected. Back in March, fans found an error after the official royal family website updated the 4-year-old royal’s bio to reflect his new royal title: prince. OK, here’s some background info: After the Duke and Duchess of Sussex held a private christening for their two-year-old daughter, Lilibet, the duo referred to her as “Princess Lilibet Diana.” This prompted the royal family to finally update their website to correctly list Archie’s royal title (something that should have occurred when King Charles took the throne). On the site, Archie is now correctly referred to as “Prince Archie Harrison.” As of right now, Prince Archie’s bio on the website reads: “Prince Archie of Sussex was born at 05:26 on Monday 6th May. He is the first child of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and is seventh in line to the throne.” However, though the title has been changed, this statement is still incorrect. It says that he currently occupies the seventh spot in the line of succession, which was assigned to him at birth. But, that is false. Shortly after the passing of his great-grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, every member of the royal family moved up on the list. Instead of seventh place, the website is supposed to state that Prince Archie is now in the sixth spot on the list, following behind dad, his uncle and Prince William’s three children: Prince George (9) Princess Charlotte (8) and Prince Louis (5). (Yeah, we know, it’s a lot.) Buckingham Palace did share a disclaimer message on the homepage of the website, which states they are making the appropriate changes to the information displayed on the website following the queen’s death. The message reads: “Some information on this website may be out-of-date following the death of Queen Elizabeth.” While not the biggest deal in the world, we do hope this error can be fixed soon for Archie’s sake. Stay up-to-date on every breaking royal family story by subscribing here. Meghan Markle Gets Candid About Raising Her Son Archie in New Interview