
Leading trust management platform joins list of the world’s best private cloud computing companies
 SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Vanta, the leading trust management platform, today announced its inclusion in the Forbes 2023 Cloud 100 list, published by Forbes in partnership with Bessemer Venture Partners and Salesforce Ventures. Debuting at 82 among the top 100 world’s best private cloud computing companies, the ranking underscores Vanta’s rapid growth and position as the market-leading trust management platform over 5,000 companies—from scale-ups to enterprises—rely on today.

 
“Trust is the cornerstone of success for any business, large and small,” said Christina Cacioppo, CEO, Vanta. “But to establish and maintain that trust, companies need to achieve and prove their security on a continuous basis. This has been our pursuit since our founding: to help our customers meet their evolving security needs so they can grow their business faster. The recognition from Forbes is a reflection of our unwavering commitment to help every business build, maintain and demonstrate their trust—all in a way that's real-time and transparent.”

 
Vanta’s inclusion in the Forbes 2023 Cloud 100 list builds on a momentous period of company growth. In the last year, Vanta doubled its customer base, serving over 5,000 companies across 58 countries, and expanded its global footprint with offices in Australia, Ireland and the U.S. To date, Vanta has raised $203 million in funding from investors Craft Ventures, Sequoia and Y Combinator, security industry pioneers like CrowdStrike, and leading cloud company investment arms Atlassian Ventures, HubSpot Ventures and Workday Ventures.

 
Underscoring Vanta's commitment to product innovation, the company recently appointed enterprise SaaS veteran Jeremy Epling as its Chief Product Officer, bringing his experience leading product at GitHub, and previously Microsoft. Earlier this year, the company launched its category-first Vendor Risk Management (VRM) solution and Questionnaire Automation, enabling customers to evaluate security in the buying process while closing their own deals faster—all in a single platform. Vanta also recently announced an expanded partnership with CrowdStrike to improve compliance and security operations for organizations of all sizes.

 
In addition to the Forbes Cloud 100, Vanta has received a number of high-profile accolades in 2023, including ranking #17 in CNBC’s Disruptor 50 and earning a spot in Inc’s Best Workplaces.

 
“The companies of the Cloud 100 list represent the best and brightest private companies in this crucial tech sector,” said Kenrick Cai, the Forbes editor of the Cloud 100. “This year’s companies had to react rapidly to AI’s sweeping impact while contending with a market pullback. Their resilience puts them in elite company. Congratulations to each of the 2023 Cloud 100 honorees and the 20 Rising Stars who are showing early potential to one day join their ranks.”

 
The Forbes 2023 Cloud 100 and 20 Rising Stars lists are published online at www.forbes.com/cloud100. Highlights of the list appear in the August/September 2023 issue of Forbes magazine.

 
About Vanta
 
Vanta is the leading trust management platform that helps simplify and centralize security for organizations of all sizes. Over 5,000 companies including Autodesk, Chili Piper, Flo Health and Quora rely on Vanta to build, maintain and demonstrate their trust—all in a way that's real-time and transparent. Founded in 2018, Vanta has customers in 58 countries with offices in Dublin, New York, San Francisco and Sydney. For more information, visit www.vanta.com.

 
About Bessemer Venture Partners
 
Bessemer Venture Partners helps entrepreneurs lay strong foundations to build and forge long-standing companies. With more than 145 IPOs and 300 portfolio companies in the enterprise, consumer and healthcare spaces, Bessemer supports founders and CEOs from their early days through every stage of growth. Bessemer’s global portfolio has included Pinterest, Shopify, Twilio, Yelp, LinkedIn, PagerDuty, DocuSign, Wix, Fiverr, and Toast and has $20 billion of assets under management. Bessemer has teams of investors and partners located in Tel Aviv, Silicon Valley, San Francisco, New York, London, Hong Kong, Boston, and Bangalore. Born from innovations in steel more than a century ago, Bessemer’s storied history has afforded its partners the opportunity to celebrate and scrutinize its best investment decisions (see Memos) and also learn from its mistakes (see Anti-Portfolio).

 
About Forbes
 
Forbes champions success by celebrating those who have made it, and those who aspire to make it. Forbes convenes and curates the most influential leaders and entrepreneurs who are driving change, transforming business and making a significant impact on the world. The Forbes brand today reaches more than 140 million people worldwide through its trusted journalism, signature LIVE and Forbes Virtual events, custom marketing programs and 45 licensed local editions in 76 countries. Forbes Media’s brand extensions include real estate, education and financial services license agreements.

 
About Salesforce Ventures
 
Salesforce Ventures helps enterprising founders build companies that reinvent the way the world works. Since 2009, we’ve invested in and partnered with more than 400 of the world’s most tenacious enterprise software companies from seed to IPO, including Anthropic, Cohere, Airtable, Databricks, DocuSign, Guild Education, monday.com, nCino, Snowflake, Snyk, Stripe, Tanium, and Zoom. Salesforce Ventures leverages our decades of expertise in the cloud and our long-term relationships with key decision-makers at thousands of businesses around the world to give our portfolio companies an advantage, help them build credibility, and accelerate growth. Salesforce Ventures has invested in more than 25 countries with offices all over the world including in San Francisco, Irvine, New York, London, and Tokyo. Follow @SalesforceVC and learn more at http://www.salesforceventures.com.

 
Erin Cheng
press@vanta.com
 
Erin Cheng
press@vanta.com
