
UPDATED 11:00 EDT / JANUARY 19 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Duncan Riley

 Security compliance startup Vanta Inc. today announced that it has acquired security review automation startup Trustpage for an undisclosed sum. Founded in 2020, Trustpage offers an artificial intelligence-assisted service that can automate questionnaires, share documents and manage security reviews. The company pitches itself as a centralized hub that reimagines how companies communicate their security posture. Trustpage offers organizations what it calls “dynamic trust centers” to collaborate on, automate and accelerate end-to-end security reviews and questionnaires, leading to happier customers and faster deal cycles. Benefits of the Trustpage platform include no need to hire contractors to answer security questionnaires, with the company’s question-answering extension able to complete entire questionnaires in minutes. For those dealing with customer security questions, Trustpage’s technology can accurately answer questions with technical references. The service streamlines the review process and is said to provide a “seamless InfoSec experience from start to finish.” Using Trustpage, customers have questions answered faster and more accurately while vendors are no longer limited to using email, spreadsheets and external portals to communicate trust. Vendors also gain complete visibility into the trust process, helping them shorten sales cycles and better prioritize roadmaps. For Vanta, the acquisition of Trustpage will allow it to expand its product line and to monitor, improve and demonstrate security while establishing and deepening trust. “Making security continuous, not just a point-in-time check, is more essential than ever in the face of the rising frequency and cost of breaches,” Christina Cacioppo, chief executive officer of Vanta, said in a statement. “By expanding our team and offerings with the acquisition of Trustpage, the conviction in our ability to achieve our shared mission of securing the internet has never been deeper.” Trustpage has more than 4,000 existing customers, with notable clients that include Autodesk Inc., Modern Treasury Corp. and Quora Inc. Coming into its acquisition, Trustpage had raised $5 million in venture capital funding from investors, including Bonfire Ventures, Ludlow Ventures and Basement Fund. Vanta was in the news in June when it raised $110 million in new funding on a unicorn valuation of $1.6 billion. Vanta investors include Craft Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Y Combinator, among others. Rob Picard, security lead at Vanta, spoke with theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media Inc’s live streaming studio, in October to discuss the company’s fundraising, including an investment from CrowdStrike Holdings Inc. “If you ask any given SOC 2 auditor, ‘Hey, what controls should I be using that you’re going to audit me against?’… they’ll provide you some, you know, their set, but it’s going to be different between them, right? The standard itself is not a list of controls,” Picard explained in the interview.  THANK YOU A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers US grand jury indicts North Korean hacker for role in Andariel cyberattacks A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration CLOUD - BY PAUL GILLIN . 2 DAYS AGO Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game BIG DATA - BY GUEST AUTHOR . 2 DAYS AGO X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny AI - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 2 DAYS AGO Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio SECURITY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 2 DAYS AGO New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers AI - BY ROBERT HOF . 3 DAYS AGO US grand jury indicts North Korean hacker for role in Andariel cyberattacks SECURITY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.