By Updated Who is this cover for? I'm Tim, your insurance expert. Here to help you find the right cover for you! 
                                        Cheap cover to avoid the medicare tax
                                       Good for 
                                        From $76.15
                                        /month
 
                                        for a singles policy*
                                       Covered treatments 
                                        None, restricted cover available for:
                                       
                                        Cover for common treatments
                                       Good for 
                                        From $88.70
                                        /month
 
                                        for a singles policy*
                                       Covered treatments 18/38 
                                          Key treatments include
                                         
                                        Comprehensive cover without pregnancy
                                       Good for 
                                        From $102.50
                                        /month
 
                                        for a singles policy*
                                       Covered treatments 
                                        26/38
                                        8 more than bronze
 
                                          Key treatments include
                                         
                                        Comprehensive cover for the lot
                                       Good for 
                                        From $186.31
                                        /month
 
                                        for a singles policy*
                                       Covered treatments 
                                        38/38
                                        12 more than silver
 
                                          Key treatments include
                                         Legend Covered 
                            Restricted cover, You may be partially covered for
                            this category.
                           Not covered. Optional for insurer to include. *Prices updated August 2024, in line with Finder's database of health insurance policies. Prices reflect the cheapest available for a single individual with less than $97,000 income and living in Sydney with a $750 excess. Why compare with us Our customers trust us 4.7 Rating | 799 Reviews Private health insurance gives you access to the same hospital services covered by Medicare – but you get access to your own doctor, private room and waiting times are significantly shorter.  Extras insurance cover does cover healthcare costs that aren't typically covered by the public healthcare system, such as dental, physiotherapy and optical.  If you go to a private hospital as a private patient, Medicare will pay 75% of the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) fee. Your health insurance covers the other 25%, plus accommodation costs and theatre fees. Sometimes there's a gap between the MBS fee and the total cost of your procedure. You may need to pay this unless your health insurance has no gap cover. Not sure if private health insurance is worth it? Here are some key differences between the public and private healthcare systems in Australia: Private hospital insurance covers all the same treatments as Medicare. The difference lies in the standard of care. It's kind of like choosing between a dependable budget car or something flashier. Both will get you from A to B but one is a faster and nicer place to be. 
Gary Ross HunterInsurance and innovations editor
 I've always been a big proponent of private health cover - and geez I was glad I had it when I was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2021. With any unexpected serious illness, the type of treatment - and crucially the speed of it - could make all the difference. 
Nicole Pedersen-McKinnonFreelance finance journalist
 Health insurance is heavily regulated in Australia, which makes it easier to compare health insurance policies like-for-like. That said, funds still have different products and prices, so it's still important to make sure you're getting the right cover for you and your family. 
Tim BennettFinder health insurance publisher
 Hospital cover helps pay for a range of hospital treatments in a private hospital. This can include joint reconstructions, hernia operations and childbirth. Extras cover helps towards out-of-hospital healthcare. This includes trips to the dentist, eye care by an optometrist, physiotherapists and natural therapies. The private health insurance rebate makes health insurance cheaper for most people. Your exact rebate is determined by your age and income. Whether you're a high earner or turning 30, there are a few things you need to know about private health insurance at tax time. Switching health funds is quick and easy. You can transfer your waiting periods, while potentially saving money with new sign-up deals. 
          "Getting health insurance had been on my to-do list for the longest time, but I found it very confusing. I realised it was actually split into two parts - hospital cover (anything in the hospital and the more expensive part) and extras cover (for the dentist and those new specs). I've actually switched policies 3 times in the last 4 years to take advantage of the sign up offers funds give when you join. I've saved around $800 so far."
         Private health insurance can help you cover the cost of medical care in a private hospital (hospital cover) and help pay for out-of-hospital medical costs that aren't covered under Medicare (extras cover). Most private health insurance policies also cover the cost of emergency ambulance transport, which isn't covered by Medicare in most states. When you take out a private health policy, you have the option of going to a public or private hospital. If you go to a private hospital, or if you're treated as a private patient in a public hospital, your health fund will help cover the cost of care. The main advantages of using the private system are that you can choose your own doctor, get access to improved facilities like a private room, and have access to shorter waiting lists for important surgery. Hospital cover is available in the following tiers; basic, bronze, silver and gold. Each covers a different list of treatments with gold being the most comprehensive hospital policy avaialable. In the public system, prices are set according to the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) and Medicare pays 100% of the cost. You won't be left out of pocket, but you won't get your choice of hospital, doctor or appointment time either. In the private system, prices are usually higher than those listed in the Medicare Benefits Schedule and Medicare will only pay 75% of what it would have, had you gone public. Your private health insurance covers at least the remaining 25%. If your private doctor charges more than a doctor in the public system, which is usually the case, you'll have to cover the extra expense.Remember, with hospital insurance, you'll also have to serve waiting periods. For example, if you have a pre-existing medical condition, you'll have to hold your policy for at least a year before your cover would chip in towards the cost of treatment. Extras insurance helps towards non-hospital-related healthcare, such as dental work, new glasses and physiotherapy appointments. Usually, an extras policy will pay a percentage of your bill – this could be anywhere from 50% to 90%. In other cases, they will cover the whole bill, up to a certain amount. Extras policies also have waiting periods. For example, you often need to hold a policy for a year before you can claim for orthodontics. Waiting periods apply to both extras and hospital policies - you'll need to serve these before claiming a benefit. Some extras policies let you skip some waiting periods. Extras benefit limits place a cap on the amount you can claim. They typically reset every 12 months. A higher limit may mean a more expensive policy, but not always. Health insurance is community rated, which means you don't have to pay more for pre-existing conditions and the price you pay isn't impacted by your age. However, here are a few things that can impact your quote: The cost of private health insurance varies and depends mostly on what level of cover you choose, your age, income and lifestyle. See the health insurance tiers and average costs. People from countries that Australia has a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement (RHCA) with can access some treatment from Medicare. If you don't have an RHCA, you'll need Overseas Visitor Health Cover. As of 2021, Australia has an RHCA with Belgium, Finland, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Ireland, Slovenia, Sweden and the UK. Traveling to Australia without coverage could result in huge medical bills if you are sick or injured. There are dozens of health funds in Australia. Most are open, meaning that they are available for anyone to join. Others are restrcited and only available to certain people, such as doctors, teachers or police. Here is a list of most of the health insurance funds in Australia. There are just over 13.5 million Australians with private health insurance. That's over half (54%) of the country's population. Based on recent health insurance data, 44.5% of Australians have purchased hospital cover, and 53.8% of Australians have purchased extras cover. Thanks to the most recent PHI reforms, which have introduced Basic, Bronze, Silver and Gold tier policies, finding cover for a specific service is easier than ever. Every tier is required to provide cover for specific services so you can check out what is included in each and select the one that covers the treatment you require. Some services often performed out of hospital are only covered when performed in a hospital, like the cost of MRI scans. Our guides for specific treatments have more details: If you cancel your health insurance, you won't be entitled to the services you would have otherwise had access to. This means you would have to rely on the medical services provided by Medicare. Note that cancelling your health insurance may also have tax implications, depending on your circumstances. When you switch health funds you generally won't have to re-serve waiting periods if you had similar or equivalent cover with another provider. However, if you're upgrading or didn't previously have cover for a service that your new policy includes, you will probably have to serve a waiting period. No, health insurance is not tax-deductible, but it can help you make some savings, including on tax. For example, the  Medicare Levy Surcharge (MLS) is a rebate based on your and your family's income and any dependents. Depending on your income, you may be entitled to a private health insurance offset at tax time or reduced insurance premiums. Any level of hospital cover health insurance will let you avoid the MLS. Extras cover alone will not exempt you from paying the MLS. 
        Tim Bennett is a Finder insurance & utilities expert. For over 10 years he's reported on news, politics, finance and other topics as a journalist and radio presenter. Tim's roles have included radio news reader and breakfast at the ABC, news producer for SBS and producer for Fairfax Media. Tim regularly appears as a health insurance expert on programs like Sunrise and SBS news, as well as in the Australian, The Daily Telegraph, The Courier Mail and more. See full bio
 The 8501 visa condition means you need to get health insurance for your stay. Need health cover for gastroscopy? Find out how private health insurance and Medicare cover treatment and compare the costs for the most affordable option. Providing top cover for the medical community, Doctors Health Fund has three levels of hospital and extras cover, and provides a discount for young people. A fund just for education staff, Teachers Health offers health insurance for every price point. Nurses & Midwives Health Insurance is a good choice for members of the nursing profession and their families. Discover whether Queensland Country Health Insurance is what you need. Commonwealth Bank Groups employees can take advantage of the affordable policies CBHS Health Fund has on offer. Looking for health cover but aren't sure which policy is best? This article looks at Australian Unity's health insurance options and helps you decide whether any of its policies are what you need. Members Own funds work as a not-for profit. There's over 15 options in Australia. If you need to undergo a blood test, will Medicare or your private health fund foot the bill? Find out in this handy guide. Click here to cancel reply. You are about to post a question on finder.com.au:  Δ Could you kindly break down the cost for me per person.  For myself I need a very basic Health insurance plan 33 year old male. For my Wife something that will cover pregnancy, scans etc should that be our luck to fall pregnant.  And then something for a minor , 3 year old that would cover xrays scans, doctor visits etc. Hi Julian, The premium is calculated based on all of you as a family. Usually, it doesn’t cost any extra to add a child to a policy. Things like GP visits are generally covered by Medicare and most doctors bulk bill for under 16s, meaning these visits have no cost. As for you and your wife, as you have different needs, you could look at taking our two seperate policies: yours basic, hers more fully featured to cover pregnancy etc. However it is often cheaper to get a couples policy. Note that extra are optional, you may want to go without extras cover to reduce the cost of your premiums. Hope this helps! Hi, could I please ask which insurance covers HPV treatments, including wart treatment, pap smear and other HPV related treatments if needed? Hi Hta, All of these treatments would be managed through a GP, which is linked to Medicare. You would need to go to your GP or a sexual health clinic for treatment, and you would be eligible for Medicare rebates if you’re entitled to Medicare Benefits.  Health insurance could provide some cover if you ever need day surgery related to HPV, but you would still likely be out of pocket (hospital excess, gap payments and doctor’s fees) even with insurance. So if that was your primary reason for taking out health insurance, the financial benefit might not be enough incentive, considering the high cost of premiums. Of course this is a personal decision, and you have to consider things like your income and the medicare surcharge (more info here if you’re not aware). Hi Jason, thanks for your question. Health insurance premiums will be going up by 3.03% on average in 2024. The government has to approve these increases each year – this year took a little longer for that to happen. The price rise should happen on April 1 2024. Be sure to check the news article I linked – it’s got the breakdown of how much each health fund is increasing premiums. 3.03% is just an average across all funds – your fund will probably be slight more or less than that. Have a good one!
Tim Hi, Are there any such plans that cover foreign hospital treatments for people seeking treatment for cancer? I have pre-existing medical conditions and looking for health cover for overseas treatment. Please advice. Hi John, Unfortunately, most domestic health insurance policies don’t offer cover for treatment needed outside of Australia. However, travel insurance that specifically covers overseas medical expenses may help. Make sure you read each policy’s Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) with care so that you know what cover is available.  Also, check to see if there are any reciprocal healthcare agreements in place between Australia and each country you’re intending to visit. Regards,
James Hi John, Unfortunately, most domestic health insurance policies don’t offer cover for treatment needed outside of Australia. However, travel insurance (https://www.finder.com.au/travel-insurance) that specifically covers overseas medical expenses may help. Make sure you read each policy’s Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) with care, so that you know what cover is available.  Also, check to see if there are any reciprocal healthcare agreements in place between Australia and each country you’re intending to visit. Regards,
James I would like a real time answer to my request for cover . Hi Robert, Can which cover you are referring to, please? I’ll wait for your response. If possible, please return to our website and click on the chat button found on the lower right corner of our to chat with us in real-time. Moreover, please feel free as well to get in touch with the specific insurer you have chosen. They should be able to provide you with more details of the cover you’re interested in. Regards,
James 
Level 10, 99 York St, 
SydneyNSW2000
 Finder acknowledges Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders as the traditional custodians of country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. 
  Disclaimer - Hive Empire Pty Ltd (trading as finder.com.au, ABN: 18 118 785 121) provides factual
  information, general advice and dealing services on a range of financial products as a Corporate
  Authorised Representative (432664) of Finder.com.au Pty Ltd ACN 166 740 398, Australian Financial
  Services Licence 547310. Please refer to
  FSG - Financial Products. We also provide general advice on credit products under our own Australian Credit Licence
  385509. Please refer to our
  Credit Guide
  for more information. We are also a Corporate Authorised Representative of Countrywide Insurance
  Group Pty Ltd trading as "Austbrokers Countrywide" ABN 51 586 953 292, Australian Financial
  Services Licence 511363 for the provision of general advice on, and to arrange and deal in,
  general insurance products. Please refer to
  FSG - General Insurance
  We hope that the information and general advice we can provide will help you make a more informed
  decision. We are not owned by any Bank or Insurer and we are not a product issuer or a credit
  provider. Although we cover a wide range of products, providers and services we don't cover every
  product, provider or service available in the market so there may be other options available to
  you. We also don't recommend specific products, services or providers. If you decide to apply for
  a product or service through our website you will be dealing directly with the provider of that
  product or service and not with us. We endeavour to ensure that the information on this site is
  current and accurate but you should confirm any information with the product or service provider
  and read the relevant Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) and Target Market Determination (TMD) or
  the information they can provide. If you are unsure you should get independent advice before you
  apply for any product or commit to any plan. (c) 2023.
 How likely would you be to recommend Finder to a friend or colleague? Our goal is to create the best possible product, and your thoughts, ideas and suggestions play a major role in helping us identify opportunities to improve.             finder.com.au is one of Australia's leading comparison websites. We are committed to our readers             and stands by our editorial principles              We try to take an open and transparent approach and provide a broad-based comparison             service. However, you should be aware that while we are an independently owned service, our             comparison service does not include all providers or all products available in the market.                     Some product issuers may provide products or offer services through multiple brands,             associated companies or different labeling arrangements. This can make it difficult             for consumers to compare alternatives or identify the companies behind the products.             However, we aim to provide information to enable consumers to understand these issues.                     We make money by featuring products on our site. Compensation received from the             providers featured on our site can influence which products we write about as well as             where and how products appear on our page, but the order or placement of these products             does not influence our assessment or opinions of them, nor is it an endorsement or             recommendation for them.                     Products marked as 'Top Pick', 'Promoted' or 'Advertisement' are prominently displayed             either as a result of a commercial advertising arrangement or to highlight a particular             product, provider or feature. Finder may receive remuneration from the Provider if you             click on the related link, purchase or enquire about the product. Finder's decision to             show a 'promoted' product is neither a recommendation that the product is appropriate             for you nor an indication that the product is the best in its category. We encourage you             to use the tools and information we provide to compare your options.                     Where our site links to particular products or displays 'Go to site' buttons, we may receive a             commission, referral fee or payment when you click on those buttons or apply for a product.             You can learn more about how we make money.                     When products are grouped in a table or list, the order in which they are initially sorted may be             influenced by a range of factors including price, fees and discounts; commercial partnerships;             product features; and brand popularity. We provide tools so you can sort and filter these lists to             highlight features that matter to you.                     Please read our website terms of use and             privacy policy for more information about our services and our             approach to privacy.         We update our data regularly, but information can change between updates. Confirm details with the provider you're interested in before making a decision. 
Learn how we maintain accuracy on our site.
 Loading form...