"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Legendary Olympic gymnast Mary Lou Retton is on the road to recovery after being hospitalized with a rare form of pneumonia in late 2023. But there’s been a lot of mystery surrounding her illness, and the 56-year-old shared more details about her health journey in a new interview. Mary Lou told Entertainment Tonight that she wears oxygen daily. “It's been hard, I have to say,” she said. “Give me a hip to rehab, give me a shoulder. The lungs are a different beast.” Mary Lou also said that she had a “bit of a relapse” in her recovery, but is now getting better. But Mary Lou revealed that there’s still mystery around her illness, even in her medical team. “They still don't know what's wrong with me,” she said. “They're calling it a rare form of pneumonia.” Among other things, the former athlete says that she has “a hard time breathing, and getting breath to speak.” She also shared that both she and her doctors consider her a medical mystery. Mary Lou previously told said in a  interview with Today host Hoda Kotb that she was “fighting for her life” and faced “death in the eyes” while spending over a month in the ICU. Her eldest daughter, Shayla Schrepfer, sat by her side as Mary Lou received breathing help from a nasal oxygen tube. "I'm so grateful to be here. I'm blessed to be here because there was a time when they were about to put me on life support," the former professional athlete said in a new interview with Today host Hoda Kotb about her recent health scare. Mary Lou told Hoda that she was “fighting for her life” and faced “death in the eyes” while spending over a month in the ICU. Her eldest daughter, Shayla Schrepfer, sat by her side as Mary Lou received breathing help from a nasal oxygen tube. “I’m a fighter, and I’m not going to give up. I'm not going to give up. I have no idea what the future holds for me,” Mary Lou said in her Today interview. “I don’t know if I’m going to have lasting issues with my lungs. They don’t know.” Watch Mary Lou Retton and Shayla Schrepfer's interview with Hoda Kotb on Today:  In October 2023, Schrepfer shared that her mom had been diagnosed with a rare, life-threatening case of pneumonia and was unable to breathe on her own in a Spotfund crowdsourcing message. Mary Lou, 55, made history in 1984 after becoming the first American gymnast to win an individual all-around gold medal, per Olympics.com. She also won silver medals in the vault and team event, and bronze medals in the uneven bars and the floor. In 2018, she competed on Dancing with the Stars at 50 years old, and earned ninth place overall. But what happened to Mary Lou Retton and how is she doing now? Here’s everything you need to know. In her interview with Hoda, Mary Lou explained that back in October, she felt tired and out of breath after getting her nails done with her daughter. She couldn’t keep her eyes open. The next day, she was supposed to head to Dallas to meet her daughters at a football game, but wasn’t able to leave her house. Mary Lou found herself alone, lying on her bedroom floor. She remembers thinking to herself, “'I cannot–I can’t do this.’ I didn’t know what was wrong with me. I couldn’t breathe." Luckily, Mary Lou's neighbor noticed that a car door was left open in her driveway, so she entered the code to Mary Lou’s house and found her. Reflecting on the situation, Mary Lo said that her neighbor “pretty much saved my life.” But a few days later, she was discharged from the hospital. Mary Lou told Hoda that "it was a bad experience" because she “wasn’t being treated” at the hospital, and Schrepfer added that her mom's health condition “wasn’t being taken as seriously as it was.” While recovering at home, Mary Lou wasn’t getting better. “Things just went south really, really fast,” Schrepfer said. She found her mother almost unresponsive the day after she was discharged and brought her to a different hospital in a nearby city. Mary Lou was immediately admitted to the ICU. Mary Lou's other daughter, McKenna Kelley, said in a Spotfund crowdsourcing message that her mom was uninsured and asked for donations to help pay the mounting medical bills. She also shared that her mom was diagnosed with a “very rare form of pneumonia.” “We ask that if you could help in any way, that 1) you PRAY! and 2) if you could help us with finances for the hospital bill,” she wrote. “ANYTHING, absolutely anything, would be so helpful for my family and my mom. Thank y’all so very much!” The fund raised more than $459,300. Later in Schrepfer's update video, she added: "Thank you guys again for the support. I'm getting so many messages and emails, and it's so great to see people love on her." Now insured through USA Gymnastics, Mary Lou said in the Today interview, “Life goes on, things happen,” adding, “I’m all set now.” Mary Lou shared with the Today host that her pulse oximeter level (which measures the saturation of oxygen in a person’s blood to give insight on how well the lungs are working, according to Yale Medicine) was in the 70s—the typical range should be around 95 to 100 percent. Her levels only continued their downward spiral over the next week. Her medical team even considered putting her on a ventilator, and Schrepfer was told to “prepare for the worst.” On Oct. 18, Schrepfer shared an Instagram update about her mom's health. "At the beginning of this week, we were going on the up and up," she said on the social media platform. "We were seeing so much progress, and then yesterday we had a pretty scary setback."      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by shay (@shaylaschrepfer) In her Today interview, Schrepfer explained that she got Kelley to the hospital quickly because they weren’t sure if Mary Lou was “going to make it through the night.” Her daughters put their hands on their mother and said a prayer. “They were saying their goodbyes to me,” an emotional Mary Lou shared with Today. “I just remember loving on you and giving you a hug,” Schrepfer said, “And McKenna kept saying things like: ‘It’s OK, you can go.” However, Mary Lou's doctors decided to pump high-flow oxygen through her nose with the hope of helping her oxygen levels rise enough to avoid going on a ventilator—and it worked. Mary Lou shared with Entertainment Tonight that she doesn’t remember her four daughters saying their goodbyes. “It was that close,” she said. “I can't imagine them seeing me on my death bed.” Mary Lou said that her daughters “inspire me,” calling them “my biggest accomplishment.” She added, “Take my five medals. I'll take my daughters over that any time.” Mary Lou told Entertainment Tonight that her daughters “didn’t deserve” the backlash they’ve received for crowdsourcing money to pay her medical bills. "They were just trying to take care of me,” she said. “I don't care about the naysayers. There are trolls everywhere. It's what makes us America. Everybody's got an opinion, but it is what it is.” Mary Lou said that she had trouble affording to pay her medical bills after the cost of her 2018 divorce and the impact of COVID-19 on her job as a public speaker. "I was in the ICU for a month, like, the bills were and are still coming in," she said. "You can't imagine from ambulance bills to everything." On October 3o, the former Olympian gave her followers an update on her recovery in a text Instagram post. “I'm beyond bless to have the opportunity to make this statement,” she wrote. “I am overwhelmed with all the love and support from the world as I fight. I am forever grateful to you all! I’m with family continuing to slowly recover and staying very positive as I know this recovery is a long and slow process.”      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Mary Lou Retton (@marylouretton) “I appreciate everyone's respect of my privacy at this time,” she continued. “When the time is right, I will be sharing more information about my health issues and hope I can help others who may face the same battle as me. After a month in the hospital, Mary Lou's lungs started to heal enough that she was allowed to spend the holidays at home. "Christmas was here," she told Hoda. "You have no idea how blessed and how grateful I was for this holiday season." Still, in her interview, Mary Lou said, “I’m not great yet [and]... I know it’s going to be a really long road.” She also explained that she’s “a fighter” and that she's “not going to give up.” Mary Lou told Entertainment Tonightthat she will have to wear oxygen tubes in her nose for another year or year and a half. “My lungs are pretty scarred up and they're going to stay that way forever,” she said. She’s also struggling mentally. “I'm not a really depressed person, but this experience really changed me, and I've been struggling with that,” she said. Pneumonia is a lower respiratory tract infection that causes the lung’s air sacs (alveoli) to become inflamed, according to the American Lung Association (ALA). The air sacs can fill up with fluid or pus and lead to symptoms like a cough, fever, trouble breathing, and stabbing chest pain, the ALA says. Bacterial pneumonia—that is, pneumonia caused by bacteria—is the most common form of the condition, the ALA says. However, you can also get pneumonia from a virus. Less commonly, people can develop pneumonia from a fungus. This is most common in people who have chronic health problems or weakened immune symptoms, the Mayo Clinic says. Some people will even develop something called aspiration pneumonia, which is when you inhale food, drink, vomit, or saliva into your lungs, per the Mayo Clinic. This is more common if something disturbs your gag reflex, like a brain injury, swallowing problem, or excessive use of alcohol or drugs, the Mayo Clinic says. Symptoms of pneumonia can vary, but the ALA says they can include: A cough that can produce greenish, yellow or even bloody mucus Fever, sweating and shaking chills Shortness of breath Rapid, shallow breathing Sharp or stabbing chest pain that gets worse when you breathe deeply or cough Loss of appetite, low energy, and fatigue Nausea and vomiting Confusion Treatment for pneumonia largely depends on the cause, how sick you feel, your age, and any underlying health conditions you may have, the ALA says. If pneumonia is caused by bacteria, doctors will usually prescribe an antibiotic; if it’s viral, you made need an anti-viral medication, per the ALA. Antifungal medications are recommended for fungal pneumonia. Beyond that, doctors will often have patients take anti-inflammatory medications like NSAIDs for pain and fever, and urge them to drink plenty of fluids and rest, the ALA says. Pneumonia is a serious condition and it can be deadly. If it’s severe or you have chronic underlying lung disease, you may need to be hospitalized and use a ventilator while your lungs heal, the Mayo Clinic says. You Might Also Like Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals From clever towel clips to a sand-proof blanket, these picks will have you covered through Labor Day weekend (and beyond). Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Boy Meets World Star has a form of breast cancer that experts say is almost always curable. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. The National Weather Service issued a rare flash flood emergency alert early Monday morning, calling it a "particularly dangerous situation." Why wait for chilly weather? This $34 polished layer will keep you toasty when the A/C is blasting. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Find the streaming service that offers more of what you want to watch -- and fits your budget to boot. Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now.  The Concours d’ Elegance, the spot to revel in pre-war and interwar vehicles, took the unusual step of highlighting Wedge-style cars from the 1950s through 2023.  One of them — a 1970 Lancia Stratos HF Zero Bertone Coupe owned by Phillip Sarofim, the founder and CEO of Trousdale Ventures and chairman of Meyers Manx — even made it to the top three finishers for best in show.