Easy rugby shirts and wild tailcoats together in one capsule? Sign us up. Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor. We may earn a commission from these links. In the upper echelons of in-the-know fashion, two brands are always at the tips of every guy's tongues: Rowing Blazers and Gucci. Imagine my fucking delight when the two launched a capsule collection today. If you know Rowing Blazers, you know their cool, carefree attitude that somehow manages to seamlessly merge preppy style with lackadaisical effortlessness. Their clothes—despite consisting of blazers, sweaters, rugby shirts, polos, and the likes—carry a street-style swagger that, when combined with the high-end, opulent-but-playful luxury of Gucci Vault, creates a vibrant summer collection. In just 15 pieces—including shorts, rugby shirts, tuxedo jackets, a tie, and a baseball cap—Rowing Blazers and Gucci have claimed the top spot for best collab of the year (so far). It'll be a hard position to beat—especially with prices as great as these. Our eight favorite selects from the collection are below (yes, eight, because there's really no narrowing it down to less than half of the collection when every piece is a standout). Get to shoppin'—you have me and the rest of the fashion community to race with to hit "Checkout," and my finger is already hovering over the mouse.   Seriously, when have you ever seen anything Gucci go for $70? You need shorts for summer. These are the freshest on the market. It wouldn't be Rowing Blazers without a rugby shirt in the mix. For the dressier occasions—a metal-buttoned blazer with contrast piping. Or, you can keep it simple with a fun, affordable tee. Personally, I'd find any and every excuse to wear the hell out of this tuxedo shirt. With one red lapel and one blue, this tail coat is the ultimate fusion of tradition and innovation. Inspired by deadstock vintage fabrics, this checked fleece has the '70s look of Gucci and the collegiate vibe of Rowing Blazers. George Santos’s Unspeakable Fashion Crime Five Fits With: Aussie Singer-Songwriter Ruel This Week’s Best Menswear Releases Spike Fearn on ‘Alien: Romulus’ 18 Types of Coats and Jackets to Own  The 15 Best Slim Wallets to Last the Long Haul Shop Glen Powell’s Exact Hat From ‘Twisters’ The 15 Best Linen Shirts to Buy Right Now This Week’s Best Menswear Releases Five Fits With: Robert Geller of Rag & Bone The 7 Best Pickleball Shoes for Men in 2024 Shop the Best ‘Bear’ Merch  A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.