The title Terror Vault 7 is the seventh film in a sequence of gnarly wipeout films created by Tim Bonython. Bonython's short films are compilations of the best of the best—or worse of the worst— wipeouts. The video was captioned: "More terrifying moments in my Terror Vault edit number 7, featured from three of my best Aussie slab waves. Starting off at Shipsterns in Tasmania then Sydney's Cape Solander & Western Australia's biggest barrel with all-time craziness from The Right. Enjoy!" The video is a little over 12 minutes of guys getting mauled by the ocean, all on huge waves at the gnarliest big wave spots around Australia and Tasmania. They take air drops, get stuck in the lip and sucked over the falls, plow down the faces of enormous slabs, and somehow survive. Press play on the film to have your mind blown and rethink your definition of a gnarly hold-down. Comments on the video include: "The Right, man. Holy shit. Also, Shanan getting devoured at 1:04 is like something out of a horror movie. Amazing work, as always, Tim." "Awesome video! Sickest wipeouts on the heavy slabs I’ve ever seen." "Crazy surfing, sick edit, first track is off its head" "Thank you all for sacrificing yourselves for my twisted, viewing pleasure" "So Brutal! The Right was mental. Insane footage Tim." "This wave's pit is so beautiful but bruh, just asking for trouble. Really, really, great footage!" "I've finally figured out why most of these guys were wiping out Its because their giant brass balls keep getting in the way at least I'm pretty sure" *** Don't miss another headline from SURFER! Subscribe to our newsletter and stay connected with the latest happenings in the world of surfing. We're always on the lookout for amusing, interesting and engaging surf-related videos to feature on our channels. Whether you're a professional surfer or just an amateur, we want to see your best footage and help you share it with the world. Submit your video for a chance to be featured on SURFER and our social channels. Be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel to watch high-quality surf videos. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.