This video can not be played World Athletics Championships 2023: 'Are you sure?' - Kennedy & Moon decide to share pole vault gold American pole vaulter Katie Moon has defended her decision to share world gold after criticism on social media. Defending champion Moon and Australia's Nina Kennedy agreed to share the title rather than continue with a jump-off after each missed three goes at 4.95m. It is the first time a gold has been shared in the competition's history. Moon said she wanted to enlighten critics who had called them "cowards, shameful, pathetic", explaining that fatigue was a key factor. "To say I have seen mixed reviews about our decision to share the win would be an understatement," Olympic champion Moon wrote on Instagram.  "I know you can't make everyone happy in this world but, in an effort to help people understand the sport that I love so much, I would like to explain the mentality in that moment. "The pole vault is not an endurance event. Once the fatigue sets in it not only becomes more difficult but dangerous.  "The sport has seen everything from athletes just landing funny with minor tweaks to horrific accidents." The decision of high jumpers Mutaz Essa Barshim and Gianmarco Tamberi to share gold was one of the standout moments at the Tokyo Olympics two years ago. Moon & Kennedy share pole vault gold medal in Budapest Hudson Smith goes from 'absolute hell' to world silver Moon and Kennedy's shared gold was celebrated at Budapest's National Athletics Centre following a thrilling pole vault final. Both athletes had cleared 4.90m but neither could make the 4.95m mark. Moon said the fatigue from such a long competition had led her to move her take off step further from the pit, making further attempts riskier. "To walk away healthy and with a gold medal while celebrating with my friend that had jumped just as well was a no-brainer," Moon added. "I understand that people want to see a clear winner but in this instance it was without a doubt the right decision, and one that I will never regret.  "Contrary to popular belief, you do not need a 'win at all cost' mindset to have a champion's mentality. "Part of the reason we've reached the highest level is by listening to our bodies." British Athletics World Athletics 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals If Verstappen wins title, who will be best of the rest? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.