Climate change is one of the most devastating problems humanity has ever faced—and the clock is running out. The energy choices we make today could make or break our ability to fight climate change. Our transportation system is outdated and broken—and it needs to change. The US food system should be providing healthy, sustainable food for everyone. Why isn’t it? They’re the most dangerous invention the world has ever seen. Can we prevent them from being used again? Democracy and science can be powerful partners for the public good—and both are under attack. Resources and Opportunities for Experts  
Published Aug 3, 2020
Updated Aug 17, 2023
 In collaboration with partners, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is connecting scientific experts, legal scholars, and practitioners working at the intersection of science and climate litigation. Sign up for the Science Hub here. The science is clear: emissions of heat-trapping gases, especially from the burning of fossil fuels, are driving global climate change. Scientists across a range of disciplines are helping to inform societal decisions about how to limit the effects of climate change, protect people from climate impacts, and hold accountable those responsible for climate-related damages. As climate change impacts accelerate and powerful interests continue to stand in the way of science-based climate policy, communities on the frontlines are increasingly turning to the courts. Litigation may be an important tool to hold governments and businesses accountable for actions and inactions that have contributed to climate change’s advance. Climate litigation, informed by science, may help those affected take action against responsible parties to limit climate harms. Governments across the globe face a growing number of lawsuits seeking to compel them to protect the rights of people, future generations, and the environment from disruptive climate change. Fossil fuel companies also face numerous climate lawsuits, in the United States and other countries, for consumer and investor fraud, deception, and the climate damage that communities and other businesses are suffering—among other reasons—because companies extracted and marketed oil, gas, and coal while knowing the harm that would result from the use of these products. Communities in the Global South, which are least responsible for climate change yet often hardest hit by it, are at the forefront of efforts to seek access to climate justice through the courts. For example, following a groundbreaking investigation, the Commission on Human Rights of the Philippines announced that major investor-owned coal, oil, and gas corporations could be found legally and morally liable for climate-related human rights violations—and that evidence may exist to hold them accountable under civil and criminal laws. The strong connection between human rights and environmental justice has been established through strategic work by communities of color across the globe. In the United States, environmental hazards litigation grew from the civil rights movement. Litigation by Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and other marginalized communities to prevent human rights violations and hold corporations and governments accountable for toxic pollution and other abuses could yield important lessons for climate litigation. The negative impact of some industry policies and practices on people and communities has a history in the courts. Lawsuits against the opioid, lead, and tobacco industries illustrate the role of scientific research in establishing that corporate actions and misconduct caused harm. Tobacco litigation has brought to light evidence of how people of color and low-income communities are targeted and disproportionately affected. The Science Hub for Climate Litigation works to build greater capacity within the scientific community to conduct and communicate legally relevant research. In collaboration with partners, UCS is fostering dialogue and a community of practice among scientific experts, legal scholars, and practitioners working at the nexus of science and climate litigation. Sign up for the Science Hub here. The Science Hub for Climate Litigation also works to increase access to legally relevant research that can equip the justice system to make decisions informed by the most up-to-date evidence possible. Specifically, UCS´s Science Hub for Climate Litigation seeks to: Litigation-relevant research comes from a broad range of disciplines and includes evidence from the lived experience of communities. Key disciplines include extreme event and source attribution science (which attributes global changes to emissions traced to individual fossil fuel companies), and social science research into reducing risks. UCS is at the forefront of informing climate litigation with independent science and timely research. See more information on UCS-led science. Social science is critical to assessing responsibility for current and projected climate damages. Scientists and other experts at UCS have worked for years to document deception campaigns designed and funded by the fossil fuel industry to deliberately sow confusion about climate science and block climate action. Along with scientific analysis, ethical considerations must also inform societal judgments of responsibility for climate change harms and understanding where the public stands on corporate accountability measures. Connect with the climate litigation community, and share your expertise, through events, workshops, and a newsletter. Sign up Join our webinar series here. General resources: UCS-led science: Resources on climate litigation: Get email updates Get text alerts 
Text "SCIENCE" to 67369 or sign up online.
Sign up or text "SCIENCE" to 67369.
Receive urgent alerts about opportunities to defend science. Recurring messages. Reply STOP to cancel. Msg & data rates may apply. Terms, Conditions, and Privacy Policy.
 
© Union of Concerned Scientists
We are a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.
2 Brattle Square, Cambridge MA 02138, USA
(617) 547-5552
 Tell Congress to help better prepare us for climate-related disasters. We use cookies to improve your experience. By continuing, you accept our use of cookies. Learn more.