When Johns Hopkins bequeathed $7 million to create a hospital and university, he did so to benefit the city where he spent most of his life. Nearly 150 years later, Johns Hopkins remains steadfast in its commitment to Baltimore. As part of his Ten for One initiative, President Ronald J. Daniels has programs and partnerships that support the aspirations of Baltimore communities one of his top priorities. We like to say that we’re not just in Baltimore, but we are truly and proudly of Baltimore. Here are just a few examples of how we’re making a difference: Johns Hopkins Government, Community, and Economic Partnerships works closely with members of the local community on our shared interests. We want to hear from you. Johns Hopkins Government, Community, and Economic Partnerships
Office of Community Affairs
901 S. Bond Street, Suite 540
Baltimore, MD 21231
Phone: 443-287-9900 Homewood, Harbor East, Mt. Vernon, Mt. Washington, and Station North
communityprograms@jhu.edu East Baltimore
ebca@jhmi.edu This web page was created by the Johns Hopkins University Office of Communications. If you have questions or comments about the site, email jhucommunications@jhu.edu. Johns Hopkins’ commitment to promote economic growth, employment opportunities in Baltimore Johns Hopkins is a core supporter of a 20-year, $1.6-billion mixed-use revitalization effort near our medical campus An economic development plan launched by JHU in partnership with stakeholders from neighborhoods near our Homewood campus Program helps Johns Hopkins employees buy homes in select Baltimore neighborhoods Supports nonprofit organizations that serve communities near Hopkins campuses Financial aid program recognizes high-achieving Baltimore City public school graduates  An annual one-day community service event that supports local non-profit organizations and community centers Twenty-five Baltimore-area businesses pledge to build, hire, invest, and buy locally. Together these BLocal commitments will infuse at least $69 million into local and minority-owned, women-owned, and disadvantaged businesses over the next three years. Learn more