Credit: Will Kirk / Johns Hopkins University 
By
Hub staff report
 Johns Hopkins University offered admission Friday to 1,592 students representing 47 U.S. states, 39 countries, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, and Guam in the Regular Decision cohort of the Class of 2027. These students will join the 811 students admitted during Early Decision I and Early Decision II to make up the university's next incoming undergraduate class. Find out more about our review process and what we look for in applicants "It's exciting to see how so many young people are thinking about the future and imagining themselves as agents of positive change," said Ellen Chow, dean of undergraduate admissions. "They've demonstrated the qualities that align with our student body, and we look forward to the ways they will contribute to our campus and the world." The personal character and accomplishments of these students highlight their innovation and commitment to serving their communities. These admits include: Students admitted to the Class of 2027 in this cohort have developed apps and founded startups, launched a nationwide anti-colorism campaign, and designed a pair of optimized lenses that account for varying conditions of color deficiency glasses. They have also authored books, appeared on Penn & Teller: Fool Us, and created a charity that distributes magic kits to children internationally. Their high school teachers and counselors have identified them as lifelong learners and global citizens, and noted their true selflessness, unwavering kindness to others, and insightful conversations beyond school events and grades. During high school, 93% held part-time jobs, internships, or summer jobs; 64% were active in the arts; and 55% were involved in student government or advocacy work, showing a strong desire to serve their communities. Of the admitted students, 18% will be among the first in their families to go to college. "Even more than their achievements, what's truly impressive about these students is how they went about them," Chow said. Admitted students have until the deadline of May 1, 2023, to accept their spot in the class. Posted in University News, Student Life Tagged undergraduate admissions, class of 2027