
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 We've got a lot of guides to help you get started when you play Diablo 4. By 
    Jason Rodriguez
   on June 15, 2023 at 12:39PM PDT Diablo 4 is the latest iteration of the popular action role-playing game (ARPG) from Activision-Blizzard. Set in the world of Sanctuary, your heroes will need to battle a new threat in the form of Lilith, the Mother of Demons. With classes such as the Barbarian, Sorcerer, Rogue, Necromancer, and Druid, you'll face countless hordes, learn numerous abilities, partake in various activities, and earn lots of legendary loot. Here's our Diablo 4 guides hub to help you with everything you need to know to survive this ravaged world. We've divided our Diablo 4 guides hub into several sections depending on game mechanics, features, and recent developments. Beta cosmetics and titles - If you meet the requirements, you can claim these rewards once the game officially launches. How to play on Steam Deck - Bring hell in a handheld. Campaign overview and how long to beat - This Diablo 4 guide discusses the full campaign and how long it'll normally take to complete the whole thing. Beginner's guide - Learn about some survival tips as you start your journey. Easy XP gains- To level up efficiently and ensure you hit the level cap, focus on these in-game activities. How to get a mount - You really need to get around faster. Kyovashad city hub - Kyovashad is the capital of the Fractured Peaks region, and it's your first main hub during the first act. Waypoint fast travel locations - These will definitely help with exploration. How to respec skills - You don't need to worry about skill points as you progress since you'll be able to reset or reallocate points when you want. How to increase World Tiers - You can increase the difficulty mode for extra rewards. How to create and join Clans - Diablo 4 is an online game, which means it's possible to spot various players that are also exploring. Still, you can join a guild if you need backup. Shrine buffs - Gain a boost for your character, albeit temporarily, by activating Shrines. Spectral Charger mount - You can get this unique mount, but you can't ride it yet. Class hub - One of our Diablo 4 guides takes a look at what each class brings to the table as far as their abilities and mechanics are concerned. Best classes for new players - Still thinking on the right class for you? Worry not since we've ranked the classes on which ones are ideal for newcomers. Legendary effects - Here are some of the legendary affixes/traits that we've seen so far during the Diablo 4 beta. Harness the power of fire, ice, and lightning to lay waste to your foes. Shout, sunder, and strike enemies as you get into the thick of the fray. Use melee and ranged weapons, active stealth, and imbue attacks with poison, shadow, and cold. Shapeshift into a Werewolf or a Werebear and summon animal companions at will to claw your way through foes. Raise the undead as a Priest of Rathma and have them do your bidding. Alchemist: Elixirs and Potions - Buff your character using a variety of crafted drinks that go down smooth. Jeweler: Gems and Sockets - Combine gems and create sockets for more buffs. Occultist: Legendary Aspects Imprinting and Extracting - Take legendary perks and imprint them on another item so you can keep the effect. Wardrobe: Transmog system and dyes/pigments - It's possible to change the looks and designs of your equipped items. Purveyor of Curiosities: Murmuring Obols and Whispering Keys - As you gather Murmuring Obols, you'll be able to exchange the currency for random gear pieces and Whispering Keys. Secret of the Spring - This early-game quest has a riddle for you to solve. Renown rewards - There are many ways for you to increase your reputation in each region. World Events - Tackle these random events while roaming all over the map. All Dungeon locations - Learn about all the Dungeons that you'll come across while exploring. All Stronghold locations - Think of these as overworld Dungeons, each with its own particular challenge. Altar Of Lilith Statues- Here's every Altar of Lilith Statue in the Diablo 4 world to help you unlock permanent boosts for your characters. Endgame overview - Here's what you can expect once you've completed the campaign. Unique, Sacred, and Ancestral items - You'll likely see these types of loot dropping at higher difficulties. Capstone Dungeon: Cathedral of Light - The biggest challenge after the campaign is the Cathedral of Light Capstone Dungeon, which will unlock World Tier 3. Grim Favors and Whispers of the Dead - Accept bounties from this creepy tree and earn more loot. Helltide Events - Eliminate as many hostiles as you can within an hour. Then, use the currency you've earned to open chests. Nightmare Dungeons - Acquire sigils to add modifiers to dungeons. Paragon Board System - You're going to fine-tune your build well past level 50. World Boss: Ashava - This terrifying monstrosity has devastating poison-based abilities. Diablo 4 is an always-online live service game. As such, you can expect additional seasons and expansions down the line. We'll continue updating our Diablo 4 guides hub with more articles, so stay tuned. Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 