CUET UG 2023: Central University of Jharkhand accepts all undergraduate admissions through the Common University Entrance Test (CUET) UG for technical and non-technical courses. Currently, the university offers 24 integrated undergraduate courses. In CUET 2022, the university received 90,151 applications from interested students. This year, the university will accept admission through CUET-UG for all integrated courses.  Course offered The 24 integrated courses the university offers include – BTech-Mtech, BCom-MCom, BSc-MSc and BA-MA in various disciplines. The duration of the program depends from course to course. While the duration of technical courses will be six years, the humanities or commerce based integrated courses are of five years duration.  CUJ has 12 schools namely – School of Management Sciences, School of Mass Communication and Media Technologies, School of Languages, School of Natural Sciences, School of Engineering & Technology, School for the Study of Culture, School of Natural Resource Management and School of Humanities & Social Sciences Scholarships for Students: The university provides a number of scholarships to financially support students. The key scholarships include – post-matric scholarships for students from minorities, National scholarship for ST students, scholarships for differently abled students among others.  Placements The University conducts placement drives for various programmes and has seen partiicpation from major recruiters including Axis Bank, Bandhan bank, Byju, Vedantu, HDFC Bank, Ernst & Young, Reliance retail among others. The average package offered to students remained between 3 to 8 lakh per annum.    Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Professor Sean Ammirati has been teaching entrepreneurship at Carnegie Mellon University for over 10 years. This year, his students utilized generative AI tools to enhance their tasks, such as marketing and coding. This technology has the potential to greatly impact startups, making them more efficient and profitable.  