
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us The 70th edition of the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity begins today and Indian agencies have sent a total of 809 entries to represent the country. The festival announced shortlists for 17 categories and India has received 43 shortlists so far.  Leo Burnett, Talented, and FCB Interface have been shortlisted in the PR Lions category. Leo Burnett India, with their two shortlists for Oreo’s campaign ‘#BringBack2011’ and Airtel’s ‘175 Replayed,’ has qualified for the final round.    Talented’s campaign for Swiggy named ‘Why is this a Swiggy Ad?’ and FCB Interface Mumbai’s campaign ‘Tr. for Teacher’ for Navneet also got shortlisted. A total of 163 campaigns have been shortlisted in this category.   The Media Lions saw nine shortlists for India. Dentsu Creative India’s ‘Suraksha Ka Teeka’ campaign for Mortein has been picked for three shortlists with their campaign for Vedantu called ‘The Everything Book’ receiving one shortlist.  Mindshare India’s campaigns for Dove’s ‘Thumbstopping Beauty Biases’ and Kwality Walls’s ‘Trixy Cinegame, Bringing Alive 3 Layers Of Fun’ have been shortlisted. EssenceMediacom India has bagged a shortlist for ‘The Missing Chapter’ campaign for Whisper.  Other works include Talented’s ‘Or Travel on Cleartrip’ for Cleartrip and BBDO India’s #NoPressureDeliveryRalco for Ralco.  Under this, Leo Burnett’s 175 Replayed’ for Airtel has four shortlists with FCB Kinnect’s work for SOS Children’s Villages 'Chatpat' campaign and FCB Interface Mumbai’s campaign ‘Tr. for Teacher’ for Navneet making the cut.  DDB Mudra Group's campaign 'Machine Gun Mouth' Battleground Mobile India is the only campaign shortlisted in Entertainment Lions for Gaming and '175 Replayed’ for Airtel has two shortlists in Entertainment Lions for Sports.  FCB India has three shortlists in Industry Lions for Stir's 'Untangling The Politics Of Hair' campaign and Dentsu Creative India's 'The Everything Book' campaign for Vedantu has two.  Talented's 'Why is this a Swiggy ad?' has three, DDB Mudra Group has one shortlist for the MTV Bothard campaign. Leo Burnett's #BringBack2011 campaign for Oreo got two more shortlists with a new shortlist for 'The Great Celebrity Hack' campaign for Burger King. Ogilvy India and David Communications have a shortlist for their campaign 'Fiama talking memes' in the same category.  Team Talented bagged another shortlist for ‘Why is this a Swiggy ad?’ in Single Market Campaign. For this category under the Design of promotional items, the ‘Suraksha Teeka’ campaign for Mortein by Dentsu Creative has been shortlisted. Dentsu Creative India’s ‘The Everything Book’ campaign for the e-learning app Vedantu is the only work from India that has got shortlisted in Design Lions. Studio Eeksaurus’s ‘Always Around’ spot for JSW Steel and Hungry Films’ ‘#WelcomeChange’ campaign for ACKO General Insurance got one shortlist each for the use of original music.  In Direct Lions, Leo Burnett India’s ‘#BringBack2011’ for Oreo and Talented’s work ‘Or Travel on Cleartrip’ for Cleartrip got shortlisted. Wondrlab India’s ‘The Unheard Playlist’ for Spotify has received a shortlist.  Last week, the festival announced shortlists for Titanium and Innovation Lions and Glass: The Lion for Change. Leo Burnett got shortlisted in the Innovation category with their work Lays Smart Farm under ‘Scalable Innovation’ while Ogilvy Mumbai got shortlisted for the Glass Lions category with their campaign for Dove, The Beauty Report Card. No Indian work got qualified in Pharma, Health and Wellness, Entertainment Lions for Music and Digital Craft categories.  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    