Dinelson Lamet will get the chance to start for the WooSox. (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin)AP BOSTON — The Red Sox know that right-hander Dinelson Lamet, who they signed to a minor league deal Wednesday, has little chance of regaining the form he had when he was a contender for the National League Cy Young award three years ago. But Boston still thinks there’s untapped potential in Lamet, who might get a chance to contribute in the majors because of the number of injuries that have ravaged the pitching staff. Lamet, who was cut by the Rockies earlier this month after posting an 11.57 ERA in 25 ⅔ innings to start the season, will report to Triple-A, where he will join the WooSox’ rotation. There, the soon-to-be 31-year-old will get the chance to work on some things in hopes of returning to the majors, where he has logged 117 appearances (60 starts) with San Diego and Colorado. “We’re trying to get his fastball back,” manager Alex Cora said Wednesday. “That’s the most important thing. The velocity’s there but the characteristics of it are not there. We feel like we can make some adjustments with the off-speed pitches. He sees an opportunity here to go to Triple-A and get better and see what happens in the upcoming weeks or months in our situation and get back to the big leagues.” Lamet emerged as a serviceable starter for San Diego as a rookie in 2017, then underwent Tommy John surgery and missed all of 2018. After going 3-5 with a 4.07 ERA in 14 starts in 2019 after returning, the righty pitched to a 2.09 ERA while striking out 93 batters in 69 innings during the shortened 2020 season and was in contention for the Cy Young award that went to Cincinnati’s Trevor Bauer. Lamet worked out of both the rotation and bullpen in 2021, then struggled to a 9.49 ERA in 13 relief appearances for the Padres last year before being traded to the Brewers (and subsequently designated for assignment). The Rockies picked him up and brought him back on a one-year, $5 million arbitration agreement in December. Lamet had a good second half in Colorado (4.05 ERA, 13.1 K/9 rate) but allowed 33 earned runs and 38 hits in 25 ⅔ innings as both a starter and reliever this season after starting the year on the injured list with back tightness. The oft-injured Lamet posted a 23.1% strikeout rate but has also walked batters at a ridiculous 16.4% clip this season. Lamet’s fastball averaged 94.8 mph with the Rockies this season, which is down slightly from its 97 mph average during his career year in 2020. In terms of spin, it was actually a plus pitch, ranking in the 88th percentile in spin rate among big league pitchers. Other Statcast numbers painted an ugly picture, though. Lamet ranked in the first percentile in hard-hit rate and walk rate, the second percentile in chase rate and the fifth percentile in average exit velocity with the Rockies. His pitches were hit with an average exit velocity of 92 mph and barreled 11.3% of the time. If Lamet is able to turn things around with the WooSox, he may get a chance to start in the majors. With Chris Sale (shoulder) and Tanner Houck (facial fracture) both on the injured list, the Red Sox are currently operating with four starters (Brayan Bello, James Paxton, Kutter Crawford and Garrett Whitlock) while using an opener/bullpen game every fifth day. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices