National 
              'We aim to establish Vedantu synonymous to LIVE learning and revolutionise online education in India through holistic experiences that foster effective learning', says Vedantu's Chief Marketing Officer.
             Online live tutoring company Vedantu on Monday said it has onboarded Bollywood actor Aamir Khan as its brand ambassador. Vedantu with its new ad campaign aims to make quality LIVE online learning accessible to every child, every home with India's best-curated teachers, a statement said. The Edtech space has seen strong growth globally with the covid-19 pandemic serving as an inflection point. Many Edtech companies including Vedantu and Byju's have also raised funds in the past few months to accelerate their growth plans. In July, Vedantu had announced raising USD 100 million (about Rs 752 crore) in funding, led by US-based investment firm Coatue. The Series D round, which saw participation from existing investors as well, had pushed Vedantu's valuation to USD 600 million. Interestingly, Byju has Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan as its brand ambassador. Great Learning, an Edtech company for professional and higher education, had recently named cricketer Virat Kohli as its brand ambassador. "We aim to establish Vedantu synonymous to LIVE learning and revolutionise online education in India through holistic experiences that foster effective learning. Our campaign is focused on reaching out to parents to address their valid concerns with respect to online learning through a series of very relatable films, which will resonate with them," Vedantu Chief Marketing Officer Shivani Suri said. Aamir Khan as a brand ambassador perfectly embodies the role of an involved parent while bringing his own charm to the character, she added. The duration of the films ranges from 20-50 seconds and will be released on television across 46 channels, digital and OTT platforms. 
Unsung Heroes Of India's Freedom Struggle
 
“An Artist has no Caste": Chinki Sinha in conversation with Madhubani artist Shanti Devi
 
Freedom Of Fantasy | Chinki Sinha In Conversation With Activist And Author Anand Teltumbde
 
Kohli’s T20 journey: Debut Se Domination Tak
 
Tour De France Femmes 2024: Katarzyna Niewiadoma Of Poland Wins First Title - In Pics
 
In Photos: Raksha Bandhan Celebrated Across India
 
Day In Pics: August 19, 2024
 
Napoli 0-3 Hellas Verona, Serie A: Antonio Conte’s Men Falter As Dailon Livramento, Daniel Mosquera Shine On Debut - In Pics
 
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
      
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.
     