Cole Ragans is opening eyes this Spring Training. The Texas Rangers left-hander has struck out nine in six innings, including four in Sunday's win over over the Los Angeles Angels.  The keys for Ragans, who's allowed just four baserunners, have been the jump in velocity, along with better fastball and curveball command. It's led to strong early spring campaign for Ragans. It also begs the question: Would the Rangers consider using Ragans as a starter in six-man rotation going into the season? Earlier this spring, Rangers pitching coach Mike Maddux said club is leaning towards the traditional five-man rotation. On Monday, Inside the Rangers asked general manager Chris Young if the club could utilize the six-man staff, especially if Ragans continues to perform highly. "Our hope is that we have our five guys ready to start the season," Young said. "If we do decide to go to a six-man, Cole is certainly in consideration there." Young didn't dismiss the six-man idea. The six-man rotation is still possible between off-days, pitch counts, pitch limits, matchups, injuries and personnel. However, Young reiterated that the goal in Spring Training is to make sure that the five projected starters -- Martín Pérez, Jacob deGrom, Jon Gray, Andrew Heaney and Nathan Eovaldi -- are healthy and ready to go once the season starts. Young added that Ragans would be a candidate if one of the five rotation pieces goes down due to injury. "Cole has had a tremendous offseason, and he's put himself in a great spot. I love watching him and am excited what he's shown us this spring," Young said. Being in the big leagues last year also helped Ragans' success this spring. "That helps everyone. You get the experience and know what to expect when you haven't been there," Ragans said. "You've watched it on TV, and you know who the guys are, but you don't know what it feels like to be on the mound facing those guys." Whether Ragans is a starter or reliever, he's put himself in a spot to make the Opening Day roster. You can find Alex Plinck on Twitter @aplinckTX. Catch up with Inside the Rangers on Facebook and Twitter. Need to catch up on the Rangers? Check out our Texas Rangers Offseason Central Page! Need to get ready for Spring Training? Check out our Rangers Spring Training Tracker. Alex Plinck covers the Texas Rangers for Inside The Rangers on SI.com. Alex has covered the Rangers since 2019 previously writing for Dallas Sports Fanatic. He also covers Dallas-located bowl games like the Cotton Bowl, First Responder Bowl, Armed Forces Bowl, and Frisco Bowl for fi360 news. Alex is a University of North Texas Mean Green alum. Follow him on Twitter @aplincktx