Home - Selected News - Thompson-Herah, Clayton, and Williams Clash in Heats at Velocity Fest 13 Two-time Olympic Games sprint double champion Elaine Thompson-Herah is set to compete in Heat 3 of the women’s 100m at Saturday’s (April 22) Velocity Fest 13, alongside world U20 100-meter champion Tina Clayton and former World U20 sprint double champion Briana Willams. Velocity Fest 13, a World Athletics Continental Tour Challenger, will be live-streamed on our TrackalertsTv YouTube channel starting at 5 pm on Saturday. Heat 3 will see Thompson-Herah starting from lane five, Clayton from lane four, and Williams from lane three.  Other participants in the heat include former Jamaica 100-meter champion Jura Levy, who will start in lane two, and Rohanna Wright, who will run out of lane one. Shockoria Wallace from MVP, Krystal Sloley from MVP, and Mickaell Moodie from GC Foster College will also feature in the heat. The top athletes from each heat will advance to the final, which promises to be a thrilling race with some of Jamaica’s finest sprinters vying for the top spot and aiming to set down some good times. ALSO READ: Christian Coleman and Abby Steiner Headline Michael Johnson Invitational 200m RaceChamps Teams with Overseas Athletes Receive Massive Blow from ISSA’s New Quota System Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ Jamaican Stacey-Ann Williams won the Big 12 400m title on Sunday's (16 May) final day of… Jamaica’s Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games bound Christopher Taylor won silver in the men’s 400m on Saturday’s… Sha'Carri Richardson made it clear she will not get distracted by Sunday's (23 May) Gateshead Diamond… Shaunae Miller-Uibo won the 200m battle with Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce at Friday's (9 July) Herculis EBS Monaco… Tyson Gay, one of America's most successful track athletes, has posted two mixed 4x100m relay teams… Sign in to your account  Remember me 


