Giants' Stripling finds silver lining in bizarre Rays homer originally appeared on NBC Sports Bay Area SAN FRANCISCO -- Ross Stripling is a positive person, so he tried to find a silver lining in one of the weirdest home runs in Oracle Park's history. Luke Raley's inside-the-park homer in the sixth inning Wednesday bounced off the bricks in right-center and then off the top of the padding in front of the visiting bullpen before skipping down the warning track with such velocity that Raley cruised home. After the game, Stripling said his dad texted him that maybe the homer was so weird it'll finally turn his batted ball luck. "Maybe it's one like that that ends the home run curse I've been going through," Stripling said. "Hopefully that's the case. I would assume it's the first (inside-the-park homer) that I've given up, I can't remember any others. Those are always kinda funky. I'm sure it's all over social media and stuff like that, but hopefully, it ended the home-run run that I've been on." The homer was the third in three innings against Stripling, who now has surrendered 20 in 78 1/3 innings overall this season. His home run rate is the highest in the Majors and he leads the team in homers allowed despite being fifth in innings. The three latest ones contributed to a 6-2 loss to the Tampa Bay Rays as the Giants dropped a fourth consecutive series. "More of the same, man," Stripling said. The right-hander is hoping the same isn't true of his back. He felt some tightness on Wednesday and his velocity was down a tick, but Stripling didn't think it was serious. He missed time earlier this year with a lower back strain. While the homers have piled up, Stripling did set a San Francisco-era franchise mark by going 169 consecutive batters without issuing a walk. He generally has pitched well since coming off the IL and is the closest thing the Giants have to a No. 3 starter. --- A sprint speed of 30 feet-per-second is considered elite, so it certainly stood out when Wade Meckler hit 30.5 on his infield single Tuesday night. He joined Bryce Johnson as the only Giants to run at least 30 feet-per-second this year, but unlike Johnson, Meckler isn't known for using that speed on the bases. Meckler attempted just 12 stolen bases in the minor leagues and was successful eight times. He had a .546 OBP in 10 Triple-A games but never attempted to steal, and if you go back to his Oregon State days, the trend is the same. Meckler showed some self-awareness when explaining the two reasons he doesn't run much. He doesn't think he gets very good jumps because his first step isn't where it should be, and he doesn't think it's a good idea to run when his percentage wasn't very high in the low minors. He also has a plan. "It's something I have to address in the offseason and will," he said. Meckler hit leadoff on Wednesday, so the Giants are already throwing a lot at a 23-year-old with fewer than 100 games of professional experience. But you can bet he'll go into the offseason with a blueprint for how to improve his running mechanics, and it should be an emphasis next spring. "I want to see it up close with Meck and see the instincts he has," manager Gabe Kapler said. "Mechanically, I think we're going to be able to make an impact." --- Last year, Vaun Brown was Meckler. He had a 1.059 OPS in his first pro season, going from mid-round pick to well-known prospect. But Brown's 2023 season is now over. The 25-year-old outfielder was hit by a pitch on Aug. 2 and suffered a fibula fracture that put him on the IL in Double-A. It's minor enough that the Giants are hopeful Brown can make up some at-bats in the Arizona Fall League, but it's more bad luck for a player who once looked poised to debut this season. Brown missed the start of the year with knee discomfort and ended up playing just 59 minor league games. He posted a .752 OPS, nine homers and was a perfect 20-for-20 on the bases. Download and follow the Giants Talk Podcast Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy experts give their thoughts on how to use fantasy football rankings when making draft and lineup decisions. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. What fantasy football draft strategy is right for you? Our team outlines several different approaches to building your roster. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season.