Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Every day, millions of people around the globe have to figure out how to pay for the things they need. Whether you're an independent contractor filing an invoice, friends splitting the check or a family looking to divide up household expenses, electronic payments have become the norm for paying for almost anything in a fast, secure way simply by picking up your smartphone. "I'll Venmo you," has nearly replaced the phrase, "Do you take a check?" But of course, not every business likes emojis alongside their invoices, and that's where apps like PayPal — which has a slightly more sophisticated invoicing set-up — come in. Factors like cost, transfer speed and international capabilities all come into play when choosing the best method for transferring digital cash. Ahead, CNBC Select reviewed the best five apps for sending money to friends, family and even some small businesses. (Read our methodology for more information on how we choose the best money-sending apps.) Free to download and use basic services 1 to 3 business days or instant cash-out deposits for a 1.5% fee (25 cent minimum) App allows users to invest money in individual stocks as well as buy and sell bitcoin Yes, bank accounts and credit cards iOS or Androis Data encryption and fraud detection technology; unique, one-time login codes, two-factor authentication Terms apply. No charge for sending money from a linked bank account, debit card or your Venmo account; a 3% fee for sending money using a linked credit card Instant transfer to Venmo balance; 1 to 3 business days for direct deposit (free) or instant transfer to your bank account for 1% fee ($10 max) Links to popular apps; social features to interact with your friends' payments (including stickers and emojis); Venmo debit and credit cards Yes, bank and credit cards Only available in the U.S. and only compatible with U.S.-based bank accounts and phone numbers; compatible with iOS & Android Multi-factor authentication when signing in; QR code readers to make sure you link to the correct user account before you send money Terms apply. Free to download the app; $0 to make purchases using a bank account or your PayPal balance; $0 to transfer money to friends and family; 2.9% + $0.30 transaction fee to pay business/contractor invoices 1 business day or instant transfer with 1% fee PayPal Credit lets qualifying users pay for purchases over $99 over six months interest-free Yes, bank accounts and credit cards iOS and Android; available in more than 200 countries and regions Two-step authentication, data encryption, email confirmations for every transactionSee our methodology, terms apply. Free (but check with your bank to ensure it doesn't charge an additional fee) Instant: transactions typically occur in minutes when the recipient's email address or U.S. mobile number is already enrolled with Zelle No need to download an extra app; Zelle is already included with most mobile banking apps Yes, to U.S. bank accounts iOS and Android; must have U.S. bank account linked to an email address or compatible U.S. phone number The Zelle app uses authentication and monitoring features to make your payments more secure Terms apply. Free to download; transfer costs vary by country and amount (economy are often $0, express transfers start at $3.99) 3 to 5 business days Convenient delivery options, including sending money directly to trusted banks, cash pick-up locations, mobile wallets or via home delivery Yes, links to debit cards, credit cards and bank accounts iOS and Android; for U.S. users sending to other countries only Secure server with data encryption; two-factor authentication Terms apply. The best money transfer apps are free to download, but costs vary depending on how you use them. Most services offer free bank transfers at a standard speed of 1 to 3 business days, but charge fees if you want to pay with a credit card and/or speed up the delivery to your bank account. International money transfers vary based on the country's exchange rates and bank fees, but you may still be able to choose a standard or economy delivery versus a more expensive express delivery. Be sure to check fees before assuming that all money transfers are free. Money apps are arguably safer than cash since most require you to create an account with a password and two-factor login methods (such as sending verification codes) to verify your identity and the person you are sending money to. Likewise, using a money app is safer than writing a check because it will not expose your bank account number and routing number to the person who receives it. By signing up for a money transfer app, you are, in essence, making it possible for anyone to send you a digital payment without viewing any of your secure account information, just your user ID or email address/phone number. And unlike cash, digital payments cannot be lost. Because digital money apps allow you to send money to anyone with an account, the one caveat is that it can be easy to send money to the wrong person if you're not careful. Some apps offer additional protections, like QR-code scanning, text or email verification, unique user IDs and profile pictures to ensure the right person is on the receiving end of your payment. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every money transfer app review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of personal finance products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best money transfer apps. To determine the best money-sending apps, CNBC Select analyzed over a dozen options offered by the top companies in this market and narrowed down our ranking by only including apps that meet the following criteria: In addition to these baseline requirements, some of the above apps offer additional standout features like social sharing, investing capabilities and flexible payment options (such as the ability to pay over time). We noted these features with a brief explanation, and you can learn more by visiting the respective app's website. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.