 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN By Isobel Roe Topic:Banking ING Australia has released a statement, apologising for the inconvenience to customers. (AAP: Paul Miller ) Thousands of ING Bank customers should have received their missing payments from employers after a glitch with the bank's payment chain.  ING Australia has released a statement, telling customers waiting for their wages that the issue had been resolved. "We can now confirm that payments that were not sent to ING have now been delivered and processed. Please check your account," it read. "We have had confirmation from another institution that there was a technical issue at their end which resulted in us and other institutions not receiving the payments." Hours after ING announced the glitch, NAB took some responsibility for the delay in payments. "We are aware of some customers who made payments to other banks that have been delayed," a statement on its Facebook page read. "All delayed payments up to and including 28 December have now been processed by NAB, however there may be some payments still being processed by other banks.  "We are working to process all transactions as soon as possible. We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience." ING Australia earlier apologised for the inconvenience to customers who did not receive their regular salaries over the Christmas period. It blamed a "glitch in the payment chain" preventing some payments being sent from other institutions.  For some customers, including New South Wales resident Sarah Croft, the glitch was rectified after a two-day wait.  Ms Croft realised on Wednesday evening she had not received her fortnightly wage.  New South Wales resident Sarah Croft (right), who noticed a missing payment, with Peter  Croft. (Supplied) "I have rent to pay and three children to feed. My landlord shouldn't go without their rent because ING stuffed up," she said. "When my pay wasn't in by Thursday evening, I checked Facebook and found all the posts from other customers." She said that, when she called the bank yesterday, staff could not give any indication of when the issue would be resolved. "There has been a very clear lack of communication, responsibility and assurance from ING," Ms Croft said. A spokeswoman for ING Australia told the ABC the bank only became aware of the issue yesterday and would update customers further today. "We are continuing to investigate this with other parties in the payment chain and will provide updates here as soon as they become available," the statement read.  Listen to the news in Warlpiri, Yolngu Matha and Kriol Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Work Topic:Child Care Analysis by Ian Verrender Topic:Maritime Accidents and Incidents Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Traffic Offences ACT Banking Money and Monetary Policy NSW NT QLD SA TAS VIC WA Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Work Topic:Child Care Analysis by Ian Verrender Topic:Crime Prevention Perspective by Breen Fiona Topic:Child Care Topic:Arts, Culture and Entertainment We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)