The DStv Content Creator Awards unveiled their highly anticipated nominees list at a vibrant event in Johannesburg. The annual awards celebrate the best and… The SAB Foundation, a South African grant-making organization, is inviting applications for its Tholoana Enterprise Programme. This sought-after 18-month program empowers small business owners… A wave of excitement swept through Alexandra township as 33 grandmothers, or “gogos,” celebrated their graduation from the GOGOs with Vuma digital skills training… Fintech innovation is increasingly targeting the world’s most influential consumer group: women. With women controlling a staggering 75% of global discretionary spending, fintech providers… South Africa boasts a vibrant financial sector, yet green SMEs, those championing sustainability and circular economy, often struggle to access the funding they need… South African CEOs are swiftly embracing generative AI solutions, aiming to boost operational efficiency and innovation, according to a recent IBM study. However, this… The Huawei ICT Academy Annual Instructor Summit has emerged as a cornerstone in the global landscape of digital education. By convening educators, industry experts,… Samsung Electronics unveiled what it describes as bespoke AI which means personalized home appliances intended to become much more than home appliances. What is… Samsung Electronics has announced the expansion of its innovative Circle to Search feature to select Galaxy A series devices. This development marks a significant… EVs have never been a core issue in American elections. The American auto industry’s Big Three make profits from large pick-up trucks and ladder-frame… EX30 is Volvo’s sub-R1m EV offering. The Swedish brand has been a pioneering EV marketeer in South African, and this crossover model range is… Audi started small. Not in terms of ambition, but vehicle size. When Audi established itself as a standalone brand from VW, it had compact… South African fintech company, Peach Payments, has partnered with Capitec Bank to launch Capitec Pay, a new open banking payment method that allows online shoppers to make secure and safe payments directly from their Capitec Bank account. This new proprietary immediate-payment initiation API solution is based on open banking standards and best practices, making it easier for Capitec banking clients to pay their basic bills online. Open banking is a banking practice that provides third-party financial service providers with permission-based access to consumer banking, transaction, and other financial data from banks and non-bank financial institutions. It is widely considered a key way to democratise financial services, as it gives consumers more choices in how they manage their money. The number of open banking users worldwide is expected to grow at an average annual rate of nearly 50% between 2020 and 2024. Capitec Pay allows Capitec banking clients to pay securely online by entering their phone numbers and then authorising the payment in-app. This API-based solution not only reduces the risk of fraudulent activity but also makes it easier for Capitec’s broad base of banking clients to pay their basic bills online. Unlike traditional Instant EFT solutions, which rely on screen-scraping and require banking users to share sensitive account login information such as usernames and passwords, Peach Payments’ integration with Capitec Pay offers far better security. Jerome Passmore, Head of Capitec Pay, said: “Shopping online is quick and easy, now checking out is too! Our banking clients can leave their wallets at home and use Capitec Pay to make safe, card-free payments by simply approving their payment on our app. There is no need to enter card details or share bank login details at checkout.” The advantages for merchants include that payments are completed instantly, with none of the transaction limitations of manual EFTs. Payment verification means merchants are not subject to fraudulent transaction charge-backs. In addition, merchants’ administrative work is reduced as a result of automated payment-to-transaction allocations in their Peach Payments dashboard. Rahul Jain, Peach Payments co-founder and CEO, said: “Capitec Pay is a sign of our commitment to open banking and real-time payments. We continue to work with banks to support official integrations which not only deliver a superior real-time experience but also far greater security to bank account holders and users.” As the number of open banking users continues to grow, this partnership between Peach Payments and Capitec Bank may be a sign of more open banking collaborations to come. Read next: Capitec Pay: Ozow leads way to new payments future  Fintech innovation is increasingly targeting the world’s most influential consumer group: women. With women controlling a staggering 75% of global discretionary spending, fintech providers… South Africa boasts a vibrant financial sector, yet green SMEs, those championing sustainability and circular economy, often struggle to access the funding they need… South African CEOs are swiftly embracing generative AI solutions, aiming to boost operational efficiency and innovation, according to a recent IBM study. However, this… C-CONNECT, South Africa’s latest virtual mobile network operator (MVNO), has launched nationwide, targeting the country’s savvy prepaid users with a fresh approach to mobile… © Memeburn 2024, a Burn Media publication. No article may be published or reproduced without prior written permission from Memeburn. To improve your experience, deliver personalised content and advertising. Find out more by reading our cookie policy. Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. sign up Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. By signing up for this email you agree to receive the latest info from Burnmedia Group. Learn more via our Privacy Policy.