Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Instacart filed an updated IPO prospectus Monday and clarified how its contract works with data storage and analytics company Snowflake, after the initial filing appeared to show a dramatic decline in spending on Snowflake's technology. Snowflake CEO Frank Slootman is an Instacart board member, a relationship that requires the grocery delivery company to disclose details of the business ties between the companies. The original prospectus showed that Instacart's payments for Snowflake's "cloud-based data warehousing services" jumped from $28 million in 2021 to $51 million in 2022, but were expected to drop to $15 million this year. The apparent slippage led to confusion and spurred employees at rival Databricks to suggest online that it was picking up that business. Snowflake published a four-paragraph blog post explaining that the numbers were being misconstrued and that in this case, payment doesn't equal usage because of how the contract is written. Instacart spelled out how that contract works in Monday's filing. "These cash payments, including the payments we made in 2022, generally represent prepayments for future services which, in many cases, span multiple fiscal periods," Instacart wrote. "As such, these payments are not indicative of actual cloud-based data warehousing services provided to and used by us in the period in which any such payment is made, as the expenses related to usage are recognized over time as services are provided to us." To understand usage of the technology, the best number to look at is operating expenses. For both 2021 and 2022, Instacart said it incurred operating expenses tied to the cloud technology of $28 million. However, in order to see where that number stands in 2023, an investor would still have to reference a footnote much later in the filing. There, Instacart says that in the first half of the year it incurred $11 million in operating expenses for use of Snowflake's technology. On an annualized basis, that would still suggest a drop of 21%. In Snowflake's Aug. 30 blog post, the company says it's helping Instacart "optimize for efficiency," a phrase that implies doing more with less. While that may explain some or all of the drop, it's also true that Instacart has been pushing more business to Databricks, particularly for its advertising infrastructure. Instacart isn't required to disclose its relationship with Databricks, but both companies published recent posts about the implementation on their websites. They deleted those posts shortly after Instacart's initial filing. Snowflake shares rose 2.2% on Monday, lifting its market cap to $55.9 billion. Databricks is still private and was last valued in at $38 billion in 2021. Instacart also said in the update that it's seeking to sell shares in the initial public offering for $26 to $28, which would value the company at as much as $9.3 billion. That's a steep drop from its peak private market valuation of $39 billion and shows what may be required in order to go public in an IPO market that hasn't seen a notable venture-backed offering since December 2021. WATCH: Instacart slashes valuation Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by