LastMile AI, a platform designed to help software engineers develop and integrate generative AI models into their apps, has raised $10 million in a seed funding round led by Gradient, Google’s AI-focused venture fund. AME Cloud Ventures, Vercel’s Guillermo Rauch, 10x Founders and Exceptional Capital also participated in the round, which LastMile co-founder and CEO Sarmad Qadri says will be put toward building out the startup's products and services and expanding its seven-person team. "Machine learning, and the broader field of AI, has gone through a few AI winters -- oftentimes due to a constraint on computing resources, a constraint on expertise or a constraint on high-quality training data," Qadri told TechCrunch in an email interview. "We plan to democratize generative AI by streamlining the tooling and disparate workflows and simplifying the need for deep technical expertise." Qadri, along with LastMile's other co-founders Andrew Hoh and Suyog Sonwalkar, were members of Meta's product engineering team prior to launching LastMile. While at Meta, they built tooling, including AI model management, experimentation, benchmarking, comparison and monitoring tools, geared toward machine learning engineers and data scientists. Qadri says that these tools served as the inspiration for LastMile. "The recent wave of interest and adoption of AI is being driven by software developers and product teams that are using generative AI as a new part of their toolkit. Yet machine learning developer tooling is still mostly geared towards researchers and core machine learning practitioners," Qadri said. "We want to empower builders by providing a new class of AI developer tools built for software engineers, not machine learning research scientists." Qadri has a point. Some companies, faced with the immense logistical challenges of adopting AI from scratch, aren't clear on how to leverage all that the tech has to offer. According to a recent S&P Global survey, around half of IT leaders say that their organizations aren't ready to implement AI -- and suggest that it may take five years or more to fully build AI into their company's workflows. Meanwhile, about a third say that they're still in the pilot or proof-of-concept stage, outnumbering those who've reached "enterprise scale" with an AI project. At the same time, business leaders aren't fatalistic about their opportunities to embrace AI. In a 2022 Gartner survey, 80% of executives said that they think automation can be applied to any business decision. Model management was cited as a top roadblock -- 40% of organizations had "thousands" of models to keep tabs on, respondents said -- but they indicated that other factors, including AI talent, weren't as big an issue as might be assumed. LastMile allows customers to create generative AI apps leveraging text- and image-generating models from both open- and closed-source model providers. Developers can personalize these models with their proprietary data, and then incorporate them into their new -- or existing -- apps, products and services. Using LastMile's AI Workbooks module, users can experiment with different models from a single pane of glass. The AI Workflows tool, meanwhile, can chain together different models to build more complex workflows, like an app that transcribes audio to text and then translates that text before applying a synthetic voiceover. And the AI Templates module, the last module in LastMile's AI dev suite, creates reusable development setups that can be shared with team members or the wider LastMile community. "Our goal with LastMile is to provide a single developer platform that encompasses the entire lifecycle of AI app development," Qadri said. "Today, the AI developer journey is fragmented and requires stitching together a number of different tools and providers, and nuanced understanding of every step -- which increases the barrier to entry. We're focused on building a platform that non-machine learning software engineers can use to develop AI-powered apps and workflows, from experimentation and prompt engineering to evaluation, deployment and integration." Now, LastMile isn't the only company tackling these challenges in the AI tooling, measurement and deployment space. When asked who he sees as competitors, Qadri mentioned LlamaIndex, a startup offering a framework to assist developers in leveraging the capabilities of LLMs on top of their personal or organizational data. LangChain is another rival in Qadri's eyes -- the open source toolkit to simplify the creation of apps that use large language models along the lines of GPT-4. But competition or no, Qadri sees a massive opportunity for New York City-based LastMile, which is pre-revenue, to make waves in a nascent -- but fast-growing -- space. With the market for AI model operations set to grow to $16.61 billion by 2030, according to one report, he might not be too far off base. "Enterprises are investigating how to revamp their businesses to incorporate AI in their applications and workflows, but they’re encountering last mile issues that prevent them from getting things into production -- for example, how many ChatGPT-based chatbots have you seen incorporated into corporate websites?," Qadri said. "These blockers can be largely solved by better AI developer tools that enable rapid experimentation and evaluation, provide orchestration infrastructure, and deliver monitoring and observability for confidence in production. LastMile AI provides the tooling and platform to assist businesses in confidently incorporating AI in their applications." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.