Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Shopify is selling its logistics unit to supply chain technology company Flexport, the companies announced Thursday. The sale marks a reversal for Shopify, which had spent years building out its own logistics and order-fulfillment operations. The unit includes last-mile delivery startup Deliverr, which Shopify purchased last May for $2.1 billion, its largest acquisition ever. As part of the agreement, Shopify will receive stock that represents a roughly 13% equity interest in Flexport, "bringing us to a high-teens ownership," the company said in a statement. Shopify and Flexport are deepening their alliance as Shopify seeks to compete with e-commerce rivals such as Amazon and Walmart. The companies announced a partnership in February that gives Shopify merchants access to Flexport's freight services, including booking international shipments from suppliers to their warehouses. Flexport also counts Shopify as an investor. Shopify president Harley Finkelstein said in an interview that after going on a "side quest" to develop the company's own fulfillment and logistics businesses, it became clear that it could offer those services more effectively by integrating with Flexport. "This allows Flexport to do what they do best, and allows Shopify to go back to doing what we do best, which is building incredible software for e-commerce," Finkelstein said. Flexport, which topped last year's CNBC Disruptor 50 list, has become one of the most valuable logistics startups after raising roughly $2.3 billion to date. Flexport's ocean, air, truck and rail-freight forwarding and brokerage services became critical tools as supply chain bottlenecks roiled the global economy last year. Flexport has been bulking up its roster of ex-Amazon executives, including hiring away its CEO Dave Clark from the e-retailer last June, where he spent nearly two decades and built out Amazon's transportation and logistics unit. Clark said in an interview that the acquisition will allow Flexport to scale the shipping capabilities it can offer for Shopify merchants, and other online businesses. "The big difference between what we're going to offer, and an Amazon or maybe a Walmart logistics or some of the other places offer, is this isn't just for one system or store or platform," Clark said. "We have very much the same vision that Shopify has. We're just about the success of the merchant and our customers, and we don't care if they sell in their stores or on Amazon or on Walmart." Flexport will be Shopify's official logistics provider, and a preferred partner for its "Shop Promise," a badge displayed on Shopify merchants' listings that guarantees next- and two-day delivery, similar to Amazon's Prime delivery promise. Shopify will also retain its Shopify Fulfillment Network app where merchants manage their logistics process. The company is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings before the bell Thursday. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by