 Vinegar can be a fantastic way of naturally cleaning many parts of your home, without using chemicals. But if you’re wondering what not to clean with vinegar, it’s worth noting that there are also many things that won’t stack up well when being cleaned using the acidic solution.   As part of many people’s regular kitchen cleaning or bathroom cleaning routine, it's understandable to assume that distilled white vinegar (when mixed with water) can be used for almost anything. After all, we’re always told that it’s something of a natural wonder product – and that may well be true, given that's a natural disinfectant, and can swiftly dissolve stubborn dirt and stains.   But just like with any cleaning product, it’s not suitable for all surfaces or items in your home, given that the acidic nature of vinegar can actually be damaging in some cases.    Emma Lewis-Jones, product director from CookServeEnjoy tells us, "White vinegar is the perfect solution for a whole host of deep cleaning tasks, but when it comes to some household items, the acidity can actually cause damage."   Cleaning expert at MyJobQuote, Sarah Dempsey, explains, “Over time, vinegar can take away the shine of certain surfaces. Some surfaces may become etched and damaged with the use of vinegar. It is the acid in vinegar which can be harmful.”   Because of this, it'll pay to remember the following items when considering what not to clean with vinegar.   Click through to read the full story...  Wondering what not to clean with vinegar? While it can be a brilliant natural cleaning solution, it’s not suitable for use on every surface in your home New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag.