All-NBA forward Jayson Tatum, the rising star of the Boston Celtics, was recently seen working out with Celtics Hall of Fame legend Paul Pierce at the team’s practice facilities at Auerbach Center. Is the St. Louis native picking up tips from the champion small forward who carried the team to a title in 2008 with the help of Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen? Tatum’s respect for the game’s past and his willingness to learn from veterans like Pierce show clues about his coachability and dedication to winning. Tatum’s playing style and Pierce’s are not too far apart, with the Duke alum ripe to pick up some of the old man game that made The Truth such a terror to guard. The hosts of the CLNS Media “A-List” podcast recently weighed in on Tatum and Pierce working out together on a recent episode. Take a look at the clip embedded above to hear what they had to say about Taco Jay getting ready for the 2023-24 season with Pierce. Listen to the “Celtics Lab” podcast on: Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/3zBKQY6 Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3GfUPFi YouTube: https://bit.ly/3F9DvjQ Story originally appeared on Celtics Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.