The Kardashians have served as the standard for beauty and body image for most of the past decade. And it seems they are finally ready to have a real discussion about the unrealistic ideals they've perpetuated. The latest episode of "The Kardashians" begins with a conversation between Kylie Jenner, Kourtney Kardashian and Khloé Kardashian. In it they reflect on how their own insecurities, based on societal expectations and public scrutiny, prompted them to change their images. Now parents themselves, the three sisters say they're more conscious of the messaging they convey about beauty standards. "I just feel like we have a huge influence," Jenner says, claiming she has only ever gotten fillers. "What are we doing with our power? I just see so many young girls on the internet now fully editing (photos of themselves). I went through that stage too, and I feel like I'm in a better place, but other people can instill insecurities in you." Jenner's further comments, first teased in the trailer for Season 3 of "The Kardashians," promise more discourse to come from the famous family: "All of us need to have a bigger conversation about the beauty standards we’re setting,” she says. “I don’t want my daughter to do the things I did. "I wish I never touched anything to begin with," she adds, seemingly acknowledging past cosmetic procedures. Jenner expressing regret for her role in dictating unrealistic beauty standards is a step in the right direction, body image experts say. But is it all too little too late coming from a famous family that has left countless viewers at home feeling like the finish line for beauty is constantly getting pushed back? Body image standards existed before the Kardashians, and they’ll exist after. Like it or not, experts say the images they present to the world have a strong impact on how others feel they should look. From a biological perspective, notes University of Houston sociology professor Samantha Kwan, traits such as large breasts, clear skin and slim waist will always be considered ideals because they go hand-in-hand with beliefs about fertility and health. But what’s considered “beautiful” changes all the time in part because it’s a “social construction.” “The world has figured out a way to commodify beauty. People like newness,” adds body confidence coach Tiffany Ima. “So after a while, people are like, ‘OK, this body has been trending for a little bit. Let’s go ahead and change what we think is beautiful.’ … If your body doesn’t happen to be in style at the time, it’s going to make you want to look like what the standard is.” That standard is currently shifting, many have observed. Jenner’s famous large lips have shrunk. Kim Kardashian revealed she rapidly lost 16 pounds to fit into Marilyn Monroe's dress for the Met Gala last year. The New York Post published the headline "Bye-bye booty: Heroin chic is back" in the fall. And stars like Adele, Rebel Wilson and Mindy Kaling losing weight have sparked massive public interest. “It’s not actually attainable because it’s not affordable,” Ima says, adding the problem with people wanting to look like the Kardashians is that most will never be able to. The amount of money they have means they have access to trainers, surgeries and procedures that the average person can’t afford. But many will try anyway, only to wake up one day and discover that the beauty ideal they’ve been putting time, money and effort into has suddenly been erased in favor of the next one. The Kardashian empire's influence is further complicated by the fact that they’ve been accused of appropriating beauty styles and body features associated with Black women, usually without giving them credit. And now those features are being dropped in favor of more white-centric features. “People like to see Black features on non-Black bodies,” Ima says. “For Black women, it’s the only time in history that our body types have been ‘in,’ so to speak. But then it also puts additional pressure on the Black women who don’t look like that.” The Kardashian-Jenners' comments seem to mark a growing shift in the famous family acknowledging societal beauty standards. But are they doing enough to rectify their own roles in setting and upholding those standards? "Society gave me insecurities," Khloé Kardashian adds in the latest episode, reflecting on past photos when she says she looked like she was "wearing a fat suit." She admitted in 2021 she had gotten a nose job, but asked the public to refrain from commenting on her body. "Ive been torn apart the minute that I've gone on TV," Khloé adds. "I didn't look like my sisters, so therefore it's not good enough. And then when I started changing my look − you get better makeup, you do fillers, I had a nose job − and there's still people constantly bullying you. It's like, so which one is it? You didn't like me then and you don't like me now. ... It's unfair to have so much pressure put on people. We're all just trying to do the best we can." “Having one of the biggest influencers in the world embrace and promote a new standard about body diversity is an important step to real structural change,” Kwan says. “If beauty standards are in part created by mass media, these ideals can shift if prominent influencers in mass media sincerely question narrow beauty ideals, embrace body diversity, and celebrate women as entire beings beyond just their looks.” Those who have had cosmetic surgeries can regret their choices for a number of reasons, says Kwan, who co-authored the book “Under the Knife” based on interviews with women who have opted into these procedures. “Some wished surgery churned out better aesthetic results, while others regret that they were not able to embrace their own unique beauty,” Kwan says. “Some expressed self-loathing and an ongoing struggle to achieve self-love and forgiveness. However, they all had one thing in common: All of them desired a change in the current beauty culture that places so much of women’s worth on her looks.” Jimmy Kimmel joked about Ozempic. We need to actually talk about it. More: Khloe Kardashian’s nose job confession and the pressure to look perfect Pilates, low-rise jeans and Kardashians: Is 'skinny' making a comeback? More: What purpose does a new ‘Kardashians’ show serve now? More than you’d think. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Kylie Jenner invites Kardashians to talk beauty standards. That's big. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.