"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below." As the end of the football season nears, folks may be in the mood to find other ways to keep the spirit of the game alive. Well, it looks like legendary actresses Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, Sally Field and Rita Moreno are doing just that. The quartet came together to star in 80 for Brady, a movie that's deemed to be the next hit sports comedy film, and it involves a major football player as well. Set in 2017, the film features a group of older women who live for the New England Patriots and its star quarterback Tom Brady. When they find out that their favorite team (and their favorite player) has made it to the Super Bowl, they decide to take a road trip to Houston to see the Patriots play against the Atlanta Falcons. It's a movie full of hijinks, laughs ... and yes, more famous faces. If you're anything like us, you're most likely planning to see the movie. What's more, you're probably trying to find out where you can watch and stream 80 for Brady from home. Well, we scored a touchdown for you, because here's what to know about where to watch and stream 80 for Brady online: At the moment, the only place you can watch 80 for Brady is at your local movie theater. But the movie is about to throw a Hail Mary, as it won't be long before it lands on a popular streaming site. 80 for Brady is currently being distributed by Paramount Pictures, which is also the movie studio that produced the Oscar-nominated film Top Gun: Maverick. When the Tom Cruise-led flick eventually made its way to a streamer, it arrived on Paramount+ right in the middle of the holiday season. Should 80 for Brady follow the same pattern, viewers can expect it to live on Paramount+ as well. Shop Now 'Paramount+' As for when fans can begin watching 80 for Brady online, there's no concrete information just yet. When looking at Top Gun: Maverick's release date, it came out nearly seven months after it initially hit theaters before Memorial Day weekend 2022. While it may have been a longer wait time, it's more likely that 80 for Brady will drop closer to three months after its box office debut. Therefore, fans could start looking for the film in their Paramount+ queues starting early May 2023. When 80 for Brady does become available on Paramount+, you'll want to have an account ready to watch it on. If you haven't created a profile yet, you can try out a seven-day free trial before opting into plans starting at $4.99 per month. Once you've done that, head on over to the movie page on the Paramount+ official website or the Paramount+ app. You Might Also Like 5 Holiday Foodie Must-Have Gifts from Oprah’s Favorite Things 67 Best Gifts for Women That'll Make Her Smile The Best Pillows for Every Type of Sleeper New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.