For her turn as an AZ Factory couture “amigo,” guest designer Lora Sonney went back into her graduate collection and proclivity for the outdoors, which she sought to hybridize with the elegant vocabulary left behind by Alber Elbaz. Her 10-look lineup was shown in the gardens of the Fondation Cartier and furthered the impression of an eccentric gardener wearing their finest among the greenery, running from a practical looking minidress with a wide ruffle and pockets placed like a utility vest on the bust to a statuesque pleated red gown. More from WWD EXCLUSIVE: AZ Factory Found Its Next Guest Designers In-House Montenegro Widens Its Luxury Attractions - Fashion Included Fall 2024 Couture Trend: Tailoring Elsewhere, flowing lines of sequins on pleated trousers and the inside of a coat collar hit that spot between Elbaz’s playbook and Sonney’s ideas. Outerwear took pride of place, be it an opulently fuzzy emerald green mohair greatcoat with many pockets or a striking hat-cape-coat combination, cut from paper and lined in wool. It came with a pair of wide trousers that showed how that material would evolve over time. Up close, the contribution of HEAD graduate Sonney, who was a finalist at the 2022 Hyères fashion festival and now works at Swiss textile manufacturer Jakob Schlaepfer, came through even stronger. She revisited that sturdy paper with scatterings of sequins in delicate gradients in another coat-driven look, to great effect, and continued with other straightforward ideas, like silicone applications on a crisp oversize shirtdress meant as a nod to water. What looked like animal motifs at first glance turned out to be prints lifted from her 2021 graduate collection, in which she had explored upcycling elements like garden hoses — those material research pieces appeared as accessories taken from her own work. Launch Gallery: AZ Factory Couture Fall 2023 Best of WWD Windowsen RTW Spring 2022 Louis Shengtao Chen RTW Spring 2022 Vegan Fashion Week Returns to L.A. With Nous Etudions, Vegan Tiger on the Runway Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?