"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Howie Mandel has seen plenty of auditions throughout his time judging America's Got Talent. But nothing could have prepared him for what can only be described as a terrifying audition on America's Got Talent: All-Stars. During a recent episode of the NBC series, Asia's Got Talent season 2 winner and illusionist The Sacred Riana stepped onto the stage to vie for a spot in the global competition. Howie Mandel has seen plenty of auditions throughout his time judging America's Got Talent. But nothing could have prepared him for what can only be described as a terrifying audition on America's Got Talent: All-Stars. During a recent episode of the NBC series, Asia's Got Talent season 2 winner and illusionist The Sacred Riana stepped onto the stage to vie for a spot in the global competition. After approaching Howie, Simon Cowell and Heidi Klum at the judges' table with a ripped drawing, she completed it with a missing piece the Canadian comedian unknowingly held. But that was only the beginning. She then asked Howie to participate in the rest of her act. "Come, he still wants to play," she said, referencing the man in the image, before motioning Howie to follow her up the stairs. "Come with me." As he joined Riana onstage, she proceeded to perform a number of unexplained illusions. After Howie took a seat in a throne-like chair, she pulled out the other half of the drawing she originally showed and a knife in a wood block. In a stunning twist, when the AGT: All Stars contestant punctuated the photo with the knife, the live audience saw Howie wince. Shop Now 'AGT: All-Stars' peacocktv.com "I feel like I got stabbed in the back," he told viewers as he squirmed in the chair. What's more, after Riana spelled his out in ashes and Howie claimed he heard his name be whispered to him, he ran off the stage. When he looked at the photo again, a message appeared that read: "I'm coming for you Howie!!!" "I'm finished! I'm really legitimately, I'm not kidding, I'm telling you that I'm terrified," Howie said. "Read the note! I was poked in the back. I was stabbed in the back. He knows my name and he's coming for me." Just like the longtime AGT judge, fans were also creeped out by Riana's trick. They immediately began screaming about it in the comments section on YouTube. "She is so horrifying yet entertaining at the same time. I did not expect her to come back but I'm so glad she did," one person wrote. "She deserves an act in Vegas, she is very unique. I think the judges are actually scared to death of her," a different user noted. "She’s truly the queen of All Stars for the rest of the performers ❤️❤️❤️," another added. For those curious about what the judges thought of Riana's performance, it's easy to say they were spooked. As for whether she made it through to the next round of auditions, she was eliminated from AGT: All-Stars ... but that doesn't mean she'll soon be forgotten. You Might Also Like Oprah’s Favorite Things Of 2022 Is Here—Gift These 20 Amazing Finds This Year Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.