SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Utah has completed a journey from underdog to top contender in the Pac-12 and now finds itself in the rare position of being a hunted team. All five starters and several key reserves are back from a team that won a share of the regular-season conference title last season. Utah’s combination of experience and depth are why the Utes were picked to repeat as conference champions and received a No. 5 ranking in the preseason AP Top 25. “Everyone is just so excited to get going,” junior guard Gianna Kneepkens said. “We know what it takes now to play deep into March, and we all want to be there. We’re all hungry. We all get in the gym more than we ever have.” The transformation for Utah is reflected in scheduling. When Lynne Roberts left Pacific and took over as the Utes’ coach in 2015, teams called nonstop asking for games with the beleaguered program. Now that Utah has carved out a spot among the nation’s top teams, getting anyone to answer the phone has turned into a chore. "We’ve gotten to a point where nobody wants to play us,” Roberts said. Building a program that other teams fear didn’t happen overnight. Roberts inherited a Utah program that went 21-40 in the two seasons before she arrived in Salt Lake City. After winning just five games in the 2020-21 season, the Utes took a massive leap the following year and made their first NCAA Tournament appearance in a decade. The Utes reached the Sweet 16 as a No. 2 seed last season before falling 66-63 to eventual national champion LSU. “You have to bite off year by year,” Roberts said. “I tell the team all the time, ‘You can’t take the elevator. You have to take the stairs.’ The stairs are hard and you gotta work. I’ve been told ‘no’ a lot by recruits, and we’ve lost games and we’ve been embarrassed in some games at the beginning. It just takes persistence.” Persistence paid off as Roberts assembled her current roster. Kennady McQueen debuted at Utah during its five-win campaign. Kneepkens and Jenna Johnson came in as freshmen two years ago. All three players became reliable scorers and quickly won starting roles. The biggest recruiting coup came when Alissa Pili joined the Utes as a transfer from USC. Pili immediately elevated Utah to a conference title contender. She averaged 20.7 points on 59% shooting last season with 5.6 rebounds and 2.3 assists. Pili’s dominance gave her teammates space to emerge. Kneepkens averaged 15.3 points while she and McQueen evolved into dangerous shooters on the perimeter. Johnson complemented Pili in the post with her rugged play, allowing the senior forward to step out and knock down outside shots as needed. Buoyed by this collective talent, Utah overwhelmed one opponent after another with an explosive offense and a rugged defense. The Utes opened last season with 14 consecutive victories and finished with 27 wins — one shy of the school record set in 2000-01. Along the way, they led the Pac-12 with 82.8 points per game while holding opponents to a 66 point average. “We already knew we were a really good team,” Pili said. “It was just part of proving ourselves to the nation and just putting ourselves on the map. Now that we’ve done that, we can just grow even more. Everybody on this team wants to get better.” The spotlight will be shining bright on Utah this season, and the Utes will have opportunities to take advantage of that. They face early tests against No. 19 Baylor and No. 6 South Carolina before plunging into Pac-12 play one last time, and will eventually be looking ahead to competing in the Big 12 Conference. They are eager to prove last season’s conference championship run was not a fluke. "We don’t want to settle for anything less," Pili said, "than a national championship.” ___ AP women’s college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-womens-college-basketball-poll and https://apnews.com/hub/womens-college-basketball New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.