


October 24, 2023

 Clean Everglades (Photo: Fincantieri Bay Shipbuilding) Sturgeon Bay, Wis. shipbuilder Fincantieri Bay Shipbuilding (FBS) held a christening ceremony for recently constructed liquefied natural gas (LNG) bunker barge Clean Everglades. The vessel is the sister ship to the LNG barge, Clean Canaveral, which was delivered by FBS two years ago and has made more than 65 successful LNG bunker deliveries. Similar in design and appearance, the articulated tug barge (ATB) will hold 5,500 cubic meters of LNG. “The previous FBS-built LNG barge was delivered on schedule during the global pandemic, which was quite an accomplishment,” said Jan Allman, FBS' Vice President and General Manager. “We are ready to deliver the Clean Everglades six weeks ahead of schedule, thanks in part to a clean, brilliant design and the motivated, experienced shipbuilders here at Fincantieri Bay Shipbuilding." FBS was contracted by Seaside LNG to build a 5,500 cubic meter (CBM) LNG bunker barge. Seaside LNG has the largest fleet of Jones Act-compliant LNG barges operating in the United States. “Polaris New Energy is excited to continue to expand the LNG bunkering infrastructure in the United States” said Tim Casey CEO of Seaside LNG. “The delivery of the Clean Everglades will give us the ability to expand our LNG bunkering business to the Gulf of Mexico. Partnering with the talented and professional staff at FBS has produced a second exceptional vessel.”   Demand for LNG to fuel the maritime sector is growing rapidly with orders for LNG vessels eclipsing 30% of the fleet orderbook. LNG is the leading solution in the maritime sector as the industry advances its sustainability goals to meet growing emissions reductions goals. To be paired with a new 4,000-horsepower tug built by Coden, Ala. shipbuilder Master Boat Builders, Inc., the new barge is fitted with four 1,375 CBM IMO Type C tanks. It will utilize a cargo handling system designed and developed by Wartsila. The vessel is 340’ overall length, 66’ beam, and 32’-10” deep. The ATB is also an Oceans Classed ABS barge. The cost to construct the United States' first domestically built wind turbine installation vessel (WTIV), Charybdis, has risen to $715 million…  Hillside, N.J.-based dredging and marine services contractor Donjon Marine has been awarded a contract to perform maintenance dredging in Newark…  A new study examined the climate effect of the mandated reduction of sulfur in ship exhaust emissions globally since 2020…  A merchant vessel reported being approached with the use of small arms fire in waters 92 nautical miles northeast of Eritrea's…  Lack of visibility on spare parts means vessel operators are wasting money onboard and ashore, writes Gurinder Singh, Director of Solutions Engineering Say goodbye to scribbled handwriting, disjointed data sources and a huge administrative burden, and hello to simple mobile solutions. NAVTOR continues its drive to “make life easy” for vessel crews Cutting-edge performance & emissions monitoring solution by Chris-Marine to be showcased in Hamburg. Subscribe for Maritime Reporter E-News Maritime Reporter E-News is the maritime industry's largest circulation and most authoritative ENews Service, delivered to your Email five times per week  
© 1996-2024 Maritime Activity Reports, Inc. 
    