PD Ports has welcomed the first vessel call on a brand new, dedicated service from Spain and Portugal into Teesport. The Kristin Schepers, a vessel capable of carrying 800 containers, arrived at Teesport on Tuesday after a four-day sailing from Aveiro in Portugal to discharge containerised cargo for onward distribution via PD Ports’ dedicated road haulage fleet. The new route, which also includes port calls in Rotterdam, Cadiz, Setubal and Tilbury, is currently running fortnightly and will increase frequency to once a week in the new year, demonstrating the growing demand for global shippers to use Teesport as the gateway into the UK. Geoff Lippitt, Chief Commercial Officer at PD Ports, said: “We’re delighted to be welcoming Ellerman City Liners to our roster at Teesport with this service; the only direct route between Iberia and Teesport. “This unique service offers best in class transit times and, when running as planned in 2023, will further boost our weekly roster of vessel calls, reaffirming our position at Teesport as the Northern gateway for international trade. “We’re thrilled to be supporting the team at Ellerman with this new service and look forward to working alongside them to further develop the route.” The introduction of the new service demonstrates effective collaboration between both PD Ports and Ellerman to meet market demands and exceed customer expectations by offering an unrivalled service. Peter Andrews, Commercial Director at Ellerman City Liners, said: “Teesport being known as an important and efficient short-sea hub for the Midlands and Scotland is a great addition to our new service serving customers from and to Iberia. With a new direct link from Cadiz and Portugal into Teesport and back, we are closing a missing link.” With an anticipated 70 per cent growth in container volumes predicted by 2029, PD Ports continues to make significant investment in its infrastructure and technology at Teesport to meet market demand. This includes the development of the Northern Gateway Container terminal – set to triple overall container handling capacity – and the introduction of an efficient automated gate system which reduces paperwork and improves the speed, visibility and accuracy of operations.    Advertise With UsFacebookTwitter With market-leading print and digital platforms for the Recycling, Quarrying, and Bulk Material Handling Industries we provide a comprehensive, and virtually unique route to market.Our bi-monthly magazine is available in print or electronic mediums delivering the latest news on new product launches, and industry projects directly to individually addressed on-site locations throughout the UK & Northern Ireland. Such is the demand we enjoy a regular pass-on readership of 2.5 providing a total of in excess of 15,000 regular readers of the magazine. We work closely with companies to provide on-site editorials focusing on their clients feedback. All wrapped up with on-site recorded interviews, professional photography, delivering dynamic stories and images that enhance the stories. We also attend open days & events and promote these by writing engaging editorial pieces published in our magazine, website & e-newsletter. Let HUB-4 distribute magazines at your open day and we'll promote your event for you in the news and events section of our website prior to the event. Our bi-monthly magazine is sent directly to 6,000+ quarries, recycling sites and bulk handling plants, with a pass-on rate of 2.5 giving an estimated readership of 15,000 throughout the UK. © 2024 HUB Digital Media Ltd |Registered at Companies House, Company No: 5670516. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy