ARE you a massive burger buff or simply prawn crackers? It could all depend on where in the UK you live, according to Deliveroo. The food app, which is launching its biggest ever promotion to lower the cost of takeaways, has found that chicken burgers are tops with customers in Cardiff. Double patty burgers are best in Bristol, prawn crackers bowl over people in Bath and burritos are tops in Edinburgh. Healthy Londoners, on the other hand, love salad bowls. Deliveroo has also revealed that more than 8,000 beers and 6,000 burgers were ordered over its app during last Saturday’s Man City v Man United FA Cup Final. It comes as the firm invests £20million in a summer savings campaign.  Chief executive Will Shu said yesterday: “We want to do our bit for consumers hit by cost-of-living increases.” From the middle of next month, hungry Brits spending over £25 on any order will unlock £5 off their next order, £7 off the next and then £10 off their third. In areas where the company is trying to grow customers, such as Bristol, they can save a total of £100 by splitting £10 discounts over ten orders. Online orders are often more expensive than food shopping in stores because of logistical costs.  But Deliveroo is price-matching with its grocery retailers on 550 staples including milk, bread, pasta, bananas and loo roll.  It typically promises deliveries within as little as 30 minutes. Mr Shu founded the firm in London in 2013 after being frustrated by meal options while working late in the City. It is now worth £1.8billion and has delivered over 12million curries — although cheeseburgers are its most popular order. THE UK and London have been the subject of a lot of recent chatter about whether they are set up for doing business. My view is simple: they’re brilliant. London has abundant talent, infrastructure and culture, and the UK is a great entrepreneurship base. I started Deliveroo in Chelsea, West London, ten years ago, and we’ve grown to ten markets globally. We’re a British business — I’ve even been recently quizzed on everything from patron saints to favourite foods to gain my citizenship.  But some things still need to change and mindset is the biggest one: Britain doesn’t always champion risk-taking as much as it could. Our success as a company has helped to inspire 50 Deliveroo alumni to set up their own businesses.  It pushed others to bet on their ideas. So stop knocking the UK and its capital, and highlight the positives. VAPES have added 900,000 new customers for British American Tobacco as the multinational seeks to switch smokers from cigarettes. The maker of Vuse vapes said its so-called “reduced-risk products” were performing well and on track to narrow losses and generate £5billion in sales by 2025. New boss Tadeu Marroco said that he was sticking with a strategy of giving smokers “access to better choices”. BAT now has an almost 40 per cent share of the top five vapour markets in the UK, Canada, France and Germany. Cigarettes including Camel and Dunhill still make up 90 per cent of BAT’s overall revenues but sales have been declining globally. The rapid growth of its vapes — which includes flavours such as passion fruit ice and strawberry kiwi — comes as doctors and politicians call for a ban on sales to children. TRADE bodies for pubs, hair salons, brewers and local shops have joined forces to call for more energy support. They have written to Angus Brendan MacNeil MP, the new energy security committee chairman, to warn that soaring bills could see thousands of businesses going to the wall. The trade bodies want Ofgem and the Government to push suppliers to be more lenient and offer different payment terms to ease the pain. THE CBI survived a confidence vote yesterday with 93 per cent of members who voted backing the scandal-hit lobby group. Boss Rain Newton-Smith called it a “strong mandate” for its survival. The CBI claims to speak for 190,000 businesses but there were only 394 votes.  Big names such as Aviva, John Lewis and NatWest quit in the wake of sexual misconduct claims, Ann Francke, of the Chartered Management Institute, said the vote wasn’t enough to draw a line under its failures. SSE is paying a near £10million penalty after ripping off National Grid’s systems.  Ofgem said it charged the Grid excessive amounts to stop producing energy when the Grid could not deal with excess electricity.  The power firm made £2.2billion profit last year. MARKS & SPENCER paid its chief executive Stuart Machin £2.5million last year — and £2.2million to four-day-a-week co-chief Katie Bickerstaffe. The top two’s combined £4.7million package dwarfs the £2.6million paid to ex-boss Steve Rowe in his final year.  The joint chiefs are “building M&S for the future” by modernising its online presence.  Sainsbury's annual report revealed that Simon Roberts’ pay rose 37 per cent from £3.6million to £4.9million.  It’s the most a Sainsbury’s boss has received in over a decade. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/