MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  COMMENTARY On Jan. 5, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit recently provided some additional color to the abstention issue by ruling that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas lacked jurisdiction to decide an exclusively state-governed question related to emergency energy price controls. February 02, 2023 at 01:14 PM  9 minute read Bankruptcy Jurisdictional boundaries within the federal system as between bankruptcy and district courts as well as various federal agencies can be a maze that is at times nearly impossible to navigate. Further complicating matters are those cases involving state-regulated issues that add abstention to the mix. On Jan. 5, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit recently provided some additional color to the abstention issue by ruling that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas lacked jurisdiction to decide an exclusively state-governed question related to emergency energy price controls. See Electric Reliability Council of Texas v. Just Energy Texas (In re Just Energy Group), 2023 U.S. App. LEXIS 253, __ F.4th __, 2023 WL 111207. The Just Energy decision, arose from events that took place from Feb. 13, 2021, to Feb. 20, 2021, caused by storm Uri, which severely impacted Texas’ power grid. During the storm, state regulators imposed artificial price caps on the sale of wholesale electricity that upset the entire Texas energy market and forced Just Energy and many others into bankruptcy. For context, it is helpful to first understand the full extent of Texas’ regulatory scheme governing electric utilities within the state. Texas’ Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) created “a comprehensive and adequate regulatory system for electric utilities to assure rates, operations, and services that are just and reasonable to the consumers and to the electric utilities,” which was designed as “a pervasive regulatory scheme intended to be the exclusive means” of regulating electric utilities within the state. The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), the state agency created pursuant to PURA, is given “ultimate authority over Texas’ intrastate electric grid.” PUCT is required by law to appoint an independent group to oversee the wholesale of electricity in the state, for which it granted authority to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. (ERCOT). As part of its responsibilities, ERCOT is tasked with setting market-clearing prices, under the direction of PUCT. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Jerry M. Lehocky By Aleeza Furman By Aleeza Furman By Helen Lawless 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join The Legal Intelligencer now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.