Drew Barrymore has deleted a video in which she apologised for her decision to resume her eponymous talk show amid the ongoing writers’ strike. Earlier this week, the Never Been Kissed star revealed that The Drew Barrymore Show would start production on its fourth season this week. Barrymore faced significant and heated backlash, as her chat show is a “WGA-covered, struck show” under the ongoing Hollywood strikes by the Writers Guild of America (WGA). On Friday (15 September), the 48-year-old addressed the controversy in an Instagram video in which she tearfully said she took “full responsibility for my actions”. However, Barrymore’s video – along with her original post announcing that filming would be resuming – has since been removed from her page. Barrymore has since announced that the show will not return and will remain paused until the strike is over. In the original video, Barrymore told her followers: “I believe there’s nothing I can do or say in this moment to make it ok. I know there is just nothing I can do that will make this ok to those that it is not ok with. I fully accept that. I fully understand that. “There are so many reasons why this is so complex, and I just want everyone to know my interns have never been in a place to upset or hurt anymore. It’s not who I am.” She continued: “I’ve been through so many ups and downs in my life, and this is one of them. I deeply apologise to writers, I deeply apologise to unions, I deeply apologise.” Reiterating that she doesn’t have a “PR machine behind this”, she added that it was “my decision to return to the show. I didn’t want to hide behind people. So I won’t.” Barrymore acknowledged that a lot of people had wondered why she had crossed the picket line by resuming her show, explaining: “As I said, this is bigger than me, and there are other people’s jobs on the line. And since launching live in a pandemic, I just wanted to make a show that was there for people in sensitive times. “And I weighed the scales, and I thought, if we could go on in a global pandemic and everything that the world has experienced in 2022, why would this sideline us? “We aren’t going to break rules, and we will be in compliance,” she claimed. Since Barrymore announced that she would be resuming her show, WGA members have begun picketing outside of her New York production studio. Among those criticising her decision is her show’s co-head writer, who said that Barrymore would “prolong the strike” by resuming her show. “I personally understand that everybody has to make the best decision for themselves,” the writer said. “I know that this show has a crew of hundreds of people who need to be paid, and I understand the perspective of wanting to protect your cast, your crew and your staff. “We’re standing with all of labour and all of the unions across the world, because that is how it works. Unions only work when you stick together with unions across the labour spectrum.” The WGA have been on strike since May. Among the unions’ chief demands include increased wages, higher streaming residuals and assurances that their jobs won’t be taken over by artificial intelligence (AI). New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.