It’s been a rollercoaster of an offseason for social media influencer Allison Kuch and her NFL husband, Isaac Rochell. Kuch, who is expecting her first child with Rochell, explained in a recent TikTok video that the couple is experiencing “a lot of unknowns” as the NFL free agent continues working out for teams. “If you’re not in the NFL, you might think to yourself, ‘Wow that really is unfortunate that he didn’t sign earlier in the year,'” Kuch said in a recent video. “Isaac not being signed was the biggest blessing for us because he would’ve missed me finding out that I was pregnant, going to all of my ultrasounds, all of these memories and he was able to be there for him.” Kuch then defended Rochell from online trolls, who mocked him for not being signed to a team as training camps in late July loom. “But, then you have people in the comments like, ‘Omg, he’s not signed,'” Kuch said. im building bones & hes playing mermaids  “There will be a day when my husband chooses to retire, but today is not that day, or this year for that matter — no matter what some guy named Jerry in Kentucky thinks.” Kuch did not name the teams Rochell has worked out with in her video. “My husband has had a few workouts this offseason, and I haven’t been the one working him out, it’s been other people — you know, other companies in different states,” she said.  Rochell was with the Browns before signing the Raiders in December 2022.    Kuch, who filmed the TikTok video as she and Rochelle enjoyed their baby moon in Mexico, also explained why she doesn’t feel comfortable giving updates about their future plans just yet.  “Because of the NFL, I have this one dilemma. I don’t know what state I’m giving birth in,” she said. “… There have been a lot of updates, but I’m not going to say anything until there’s pen to paper, and even then, I’m like, do I say something?   “So I guess the update is that I don’t really feel comfortable giving an update. You’ll get one when you get one… There are a lot of unknowns right now, and people like to think it’s just the team — but the fact that I don’t know what state I’m giving birth in, what doctor I’m going to have, or where I’m going to be living is a lot. We’re taking it day by day and whatever happens, happens.”  Kuch did provide something of an update in a separate TikTok video, revealing the couple’s gender reveal party is set for July 15. “We already have the baby’s name picked out and now all I need to know is where I’m going to live and where I’m going to give birth,” she said.   Kuch also explained that the couple decided to have their baby moon earlier in her pregnancy since she is due in December, late into the NFL season. The couple announced Kuch’s pregnancy in June, posting a video on social media that showed the college sweethearts celebrating after a positive pregnancy test in April. Kuch and Rochell eloped in December 2020 before tying the knot again in a destination wedding in April 2021. Kuch gained attention on social media in late 2019 thanks in part to her videos detailing the NFL lifestyle. “I started on social media just sharing my life about me and my husband and our journey together because so many people are like, ‘He’s in the NFL, not you,’ but his lifestyle definitely affects mine,” Kuch told The Post in an exclusive interview in February. “Being able to show people what actually happens, and I get so much feedback, people telling me, ‘Oh, I didn’t know he could just leave the team midseason,’ or, ‘I didn’t even think about how you get a six-month lease,’ or, ‘How do you cancel a lease if he gets cut,’ and all of that, so I have loved showing every single part.” Advertisement