Feb. 8—The Morgantown community has understandably been shaken by the video that went viral over the weekend, showing an altercation between a Morgantown Police officer and a young man that resulted in the young man being pinned to the sidewalk. (The young man ended up with abrasions on his face.) Monday evening, Morgantown PD released body camera footage of the incident. Along with the footage, the MPD released a statement that officers were responding to a domestic violence call at Fat Daddy's Bar and Grill just before midnight Thursday, Feb. 2. Callers alleged a young man, later identified as Massinissa Belkadi, was trying to forcibly remove his ex-girlfriend from the bar. From both videos, we can see that Belkadi was sitting on the steps outside Chipotle on High Street, up and across the road from Fat Daddy's. He appears to be sitting by himself. According to the criminal complaint, Belkadi "was uncooperative with the officer and refused to answer the officer or comply with his requests. After several moments of refusal to engage with the officer, Belkadi was asked to stand up from his seated position, which he also refused to do." The videos show us what happens next: The officer pulls Belkadi to his feet ; they spin around and end up on the ground. Two officers then work to put handcuffs on Belkadi. In its statement, the Morgantown Police said the officer did not use excessive force. Ultimately, Belkadi was charged with obstructing an officer, disorderly conduct and public intoxication ; MPD said the investigation into the alleged domestic incident is ongoing. After two short videos and a press release, we still have more questions than answers. What we cannot see in either video, and what is not articulated in the criminal complaint, is how officers approached Belkadi—and most of our questions revolve around those undisclosed moments. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals said in 2003, "Refusal to identify oneself to a law enforcement officer does not, standing alone, form the basis for a charge of obstructing a law enforcement officer in performing official duties ... However, the charge of obstructing an officer may be substantiated when a citizen does not supply identification ... when the refusal occurs after a law enforcement officer has communicated the reason why the citizen's name is being sought in relation to the officer's official duties." (However, police will often threaten obstruction charges for any noncompliance, and courts have usually ruled on a case-by-case basis, sometimes in ways that seem contrary to previous rulings.) It is what's unknown that shapes the rest of the encounter and the public's understanding of what happened and why. Did Belkadi know that someone had called 911 and reported his altercation with his ex ? Did officers tell Belkadi that they were responding to a domestic violence call in which he had been identified as a suspect—or that they had reasonable suspicion to think he was the suspect ? Did police tell Belkadi he was being detained ? If the situation was such that Belkadi was not obligated to give his ID, was he still obligated to follow the officer's order to stand ? We appreciate that the Morgantown Police released body cam footage without being FOIAed. However, many of our questions (though admittedly not all) could be answered if the MPD released more of the video—specifically from when officers first approached Belkadi. We know at least one news organization has issued a Freedom of Information Act request for the other officers' body cam footage. We hope that request is honored—promptly—and the complete footage from all officers' cameras are released. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.