Nikki Haley plans to announce her 2024 presidential bid February 15, reports say. Donald Trump responded by sharing an old video of her saying she would not challenge him. Haley served for two years as Trump's ambassador to the United Nations. Former president Donald Trump has shared an old video of Nikki Haley, who is rumored to be launching her own White House bid, in which she says that she would never run against him. "If he runs again in 2024, will you support him?" a reporter asks in the clip from April 2021. "Yes," Haley replied. "If he decides that he's going to run would that preclude any sort of run that you would possibly make yourself?" the reporter pressed. "I would not run if President Trump ran," Haley replied. "Nikki has to follow her heart, not her honor. She should definitely run!" the former President posted on his Truth Social page Wednesday, amid reports that Haley is poised to launch her campaign on February 15. —Ron Filipkowski 🇺🇦 (@RonFilipkowski) February 1, 2023 If she does, it would make her the first Republican to declare a challenge to the former President. Haley, 51, has said she considers herself to be a part of "a new generation" of Republican leaders. Trump launched his 2024 bid last November, but the underwhelming performance of the candidates he endorsed in the 2022 midterms, and a series of recent scandals, has left him politically vulnerable. Former allies such as Mike Pence and Mike Pompeo are rumored to be considering rival bids, whilst analysts believe that Trump's most formidable challenger could be Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, a rising star in the party. Haley served as South Carolina's governor before being nominated as the US' UN ambassador by Trump in 2017, staying in the job for two years. She has steered between criticising and praising the former president since he left office in 2021. Haley said Trump had been judged "harshly" over his actions during the January 6, 2021 Capitol riot, but later that year said she'd not challenge him for the presidency as his popularity with the GOP base held firm. On Saturday, Trump told reporters that she had called him to say that she was considering a presidential bid. "I said, 'Look, you know, go by your heart if you want to run'," he said.   Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.