You can put “seeing ‘The Super Mario Bros. Movie’ ” under the list of parental duties. Yes, if the young ones pester you to go see this adaptation of the uber popular video game and the character who’s been around since I was in high school (yeah, that’s a long time), just bite the bullet, reach into the wallet and go. It’s akin to taking them to visit Santa — only in the spring and the only thing it will cost is the price of a movie ticket as opposed to a load of gifts. And sure, if you played any iteration of the video game since Mario debuted as “Jumpman” in the original “Donkey Kong” game way back in 1981, a sense of nostalgia may motivate taking the kids to a local theater. Be warned, however. There isn’t much there beyond nostalgia for anyone older than 10. After playing with my sons — ages 19 and 28 — during the pandemic I’ve still never gotten the allure of the cartoonish Mario and his brother Luigi. I prefer my games more realistic and more of the Madden football variety. But they still toy around with it and 40-plus years of history says that the characters Mario (voice by Chris Pratt) and Luigi (Charlie Day) still hold sway over young ones and, obviously, some adults. For those expecting an actual plot beyond the character’s video game origins. Yeah, just don’t. It’s fairly straight forward and graphically in tune with the games. The brothers get sucked into the Mushroom Kingdom and they have to save it and its leader, Princess Peach (Anya Taylor-Joy) from Bowser aka King Koopa (voice by Jack Black), a super-powered turtle. Yup, that’s the story. To the filmmakers’ credit, they throw in a lesson here and there about self-worth, self-confidence and family loyalty. Ultimately, however, “The Super Mario Bros. Movie” is a 92-minute long commercial for a game franchise that possesses just a smidge more plot. George M. Thomas dabbles in movies and television for the Beacon Journal. Details Movie: “The Super Mario Bros. Movie” Cast: Chris Pratt, Jack Black, Charlie Day, Anya Taylor-Joy Directed by: Aaron Horvath, Michael Jelenic Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes Rated: PG for action and mild violence Grade: C for parents; solid B+ for children This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Review: ‘The Super Mario Bros. Movie’ strictly for the kids New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.