Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? It’s never a bad time to watch an action movie. They provide perfect escapism from the stressful day-to-day grind. They are thrilling, exciting, and offer high-octane storylines that keep you engaged the entire way through. Some of the best action movies on Prime Video have a good dose of humor thrown in for good measure. From new movies to older favorites you can rewatch or watch for the first time, these three action movies on Prime Video are ones worth checking out this September. Whether you are familiar with or have played the tabletop role-playing game before or not, Dungeons & Dragons is only a backdrop for the fantasy heist comedy plot in Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves. The movie stands on its own as a thrilling, funny take on residents of the fictional Forgotten Realms. It has elements of revenge, thievery, sorcery, romance, and friendship, all rolled into one, and it’s even a bit corny at times, though endearingly so. With a top-notch cast that includes Chris Pine, Michelle Rodriguez, Hugh Grant, and Bridgerton’s Regé-Jean Page in a scene-stealing role, Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is enjoyable for viewers of all ages. Stream Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves on Prime Video. As 2022’s highest-grossing summer blockbuster movie, Top Gun: Maverick made the franchise proud as it’s a touching, exciting, nostalgic continuation of the original story from 1986. Tom Cruise reprises his role as naval aviator Pete “Maverick” Mitchell, who is retired, but called back in to train a group of graduates for a very specialized mission. If anyone can train the team to succeed in the death-defying stunts, it’s Maverick. Introducing the new character of Lieutenant Bradley “Rooster” Bradshaw (Miles Teller) as the son of Maverick’s late best friend, Nick “Goose” Bradshaw and Jon Hamm as Vice Admiral Beau “Cyclone” Simpson, the movie was a billion-dollar success. It was the second highest-grossing movie of the year, behind only Avatar: The Way of Water, and the highest-grossing in the U.S. and Canada. Top Gun: Maverick is the kind of movie you can watch even if you never saw the original, but it will hit even more deeply if you did. Stream Top Gun: Maverick on Prime Video. Brad Pitt shines in Inglorious Basterds, which received eight Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Picture. The Quentin Tarantino war movie, one of the director’s best, tells an alternate history story about two simultaneous plots to assassinate Nazi Germany’s leadership. Also starring Christoph Waltz (who won an Academy Award for his breakthrough role), Diane Kruger, and Michael Fassbender, Inglorious Basterds is one of Tarantino’s highest-grossing films to date. This isn’t an accurate historical account of Hitler and WWII; instead, it’s a violent romp that has a clever story and characters you’ll never forget. Stream Inglorious Basterds on Prime Video. Amazon Prime Video has tons of high-profile shows like The Boys, The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power, and Invincible. But the streaming service has lesser-known, not as popular originals, too. Amazon also affords access to other shows that don’t get as much attention. If you’re looking for something to watch this month before summer comes to a close, there’s plenty from which to choose. These shows are relatively underrated in their respective genres, but you might find that you love them. Each one is a reimagining of a previous series or movie (or movies) with a fresh perspective to keep you entertained.
Lethal Weapon (2016-2019)
Official Trailer | LETHAL WEAPON Among the major streaming services, Amazon Prime Video should never be overlooked. That's because Prime Video boasts one of the largest and most diverse lineup of movies that you can stream. In fact, the new movies on Prime Video in July are so impressive that we can pick three Oscar-winners for Best Picture from the latest arrivals and truthfully say that these are the three dramas on Prime Video that you need to watch in July. Our first choice is 1990's winner for Best Picture, but it's only going to be around through the end of July... so you really do need to watch it this month! The other two films will be sticking around at least into next month, but it's never too early to watch a great movie from the comfort of your own home.
Dances with Wolves (1990) What's on tap this month on Tubi? Fans of The Fast and The Furious can stream seven movies from the franchise, including the best one, Fast Five. There are four Jurassic Park films, with the original from Steven Spielberg available to watch right now. Other signature movies on Tubi include Batman, Training Day, Goodfellas, and The Fugitive. Remember that Tubi is a FAST service, meaning every film and TV show is available for free with ads. Because it's summer, Tubi offers a variety of action films that are terrific forms of blockbuster entertainment. Check out these three action movies, including a Denzel Washington thriller from 2006, a sci-fi masterpiece, and a thriller set inside a space prison.
Déjà Vu (2006) Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.