ESPN posted a six-second video to social media platforms that had readers confused Thursday after the new Bucks star scored 39 points to help Milwaukee take down the Philadelphia 76ers. The video, showing up on ESPN's Instagram and SportsCenter on X/Twitter, appears to show Lillard in his Bucks jersey speaking to an unseen reporter, proclaiming, "Ain't nothing I want more. I told you when I first came here, I said I didn't come here to waste my time." DAME DIDN'T COME TO MILWAUKEE TO WASTE HIS TIME 🗣️ pic.twitter.com/vw6Coa6JG0 — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) October 27, 2023 The posts include an editorial note, "DAME DIDN'T COME TO MILWAUKEE TO WASTE HIS TIME." But the interview was recorded in 2020, when Lillard was speaking in the Orlando "bubble," still as a member of the Blazers. Not only that, but the audio is from an interview that first appeared on TNT; ESPN digitally added a Bucks logo on the court, changed his uniform and even added an ESPN "flag" on the microphone to suggest the audio was first gathered by ESPN. That struck people as dishonest and … well, weird. The long length of the microphone screams "2020," and the NBA logo at center court should make it fairly clear that this isn't Fiserv Forum, not to mention that the Bucks didn't wear the style of jersey in Thursday's game that Lillard is given in the clip. More: Nickel: Damian Lillard shows why he's going to fit right in with the Milwaukee Bucks More: Damian Lillard adds to the great debuts in Wisconsin sports history The most charitable read is that ESPN wasn't making an earnest effort to mislead and intended to re-purpose (obvious?) old material for a fitting sound bite. But it landed oddly, particularly in an environment where AI coverage and "deep fake" videos have created an uneasy ripple through all media coverage. It's not as if Lillard didn't have things to say after his Milwaukee debut. ESPN responded to the Journal Sentinel with this statement: "We occasionally look to connect sports moments of the past with contemporary imagery and storylines as part of our social content. While it was never our intention to misrepresent anything for fans, we completely recognize how this instance caused confusion." I know who I am, I know what I am here to do, and I know how to do it."Damian Lillard after his first regular-season game in a #Bucks uniform.#FearTheDeer | #NBA pic.twitter.com/iRQqIk2ml6 — Bally Sports Wisconsin (@BallySportWI) October 28, 2023 ESPN took an interview from 2020, edited Damian Lillard into a Bucks uniform, making it seem like he said these comments after his first game in Milwaukee in 2023. Posted it on ESPN Instagram with no disclaimer. pic.twitter.com/ALEuqRr7dx — Bri Amaranthus (@BriAmaranthus) October 27, 2023 If this passes ESPN editorial standards, their journalistic days are over. As @DannyMarang spotted, the clip is manipulated w/o disclosure. It's an interview Lillard did in 2020 with TNT while a Blazer. ESPN edited his jersey and the mic flag and added a logo to the floor. https://t.co/lLGEuIiSnB — Dylan McLemore (@voiceofD) October 27, 2023 This article originally appeared on Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: ESPN posts Damian Lillard sound bite with digitally fabricated details Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.