Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия For the last few years, Thai Boy Love (BL) dramas have been gaining quite a fan base. Just like Korean dramas, Thai BL dramas are keeping audiences hooked with their intriguing plots, sizzling chemistry, and captivating gay love stories. The dramas — sweet and hot at the same time — are offering an interesting insight into same-sex relationships in Thailand. These LGBTQIA+ stories are highlighting important issues like the problems same-sex couples face, acceptance of one’s sexuality when same-sex love is frowned upon, and more. The Thai BL dramas are, thus, more than just mushy love stories. Here are some popular Thai BL dramas to start your journey.  Type Thiwat, a college freshman, is bubbly and friendly but has immense hatred for homosexuals due to a childhood molestation incident that has scarred him for life. He, however, is forced to share a room with the openly gay Tharn Kirigun. Type does everything to throw Tharn out of his room, but the latter puts up with the hostility and homophobic slurs. As time passes and the duo learns to accept each other’s presence, there’s a new feeling brewing in Type’s heart. He can’t help but be drawn towards Tharn, whose acts force Type to question his sexuality. High on mushy scenes peppered with titillating make-out sessions, Type and Tharn slowly wedge their way into your heart as you see the two lonely souls find solace in and fall for each other. There’s one more season that will keep you hooked on the series.  This reincarnation Thai BL drama follows Korn, a university student and son of a mafia boss, and Intouch, who is his classmate. Intouch is in love with Korn and does everything in his power to woo him. Korn, however, rejects the advances. But, when Cupid strikes Korn, it’s too late. A tragedy claims the two lovers’ lives. Three decades later, Pharm Triwinij and Dean cross paths. They, too, meet in the universe like Korn and Intouch. When the two start falling for each other, they realise they are more like Korn and Intouch. The two struggle to find their ‘happily ever after’, while navigating the various curve balls life throws at them.  Rain has his eyes set on a girl, but she doesn’t like him. Instead, her heart flutters for the school’s handsome senior, Phayu. As luck would have it, a series of unfortunate events lands Phayu in Rain’s arms. He decides to use the opportunity to ruin Phayu’s reputation at school by making him fall in love with him and breaking his heart. Helping Rain in his mission is his best friend Sky, who has given up on love until he meets Prapai. With the flame of love slowly igniting in Rain and Sky’s hearts due to Phayu and Prapai, the two friends dwell deep into their hearts to make sense of the change in the situation.  Tine and Sarawat lead different lives — the former is a cheerleader and an average student, while the latter is the typical, popular college boy. To avoid the advances of his classmate Green, Tine convinces Sarawat to get into a fake relationship. However, as time passes, lines blur between fake and real, and the two boys realise that their feelings are not just for show anymore.  This coming-of-age Thai BL drama revolves around childhood friends Teh and Oh-aew who have a fallout after a fight and eventually lose touch. Years later, they cross paths again at a Chinese language school where Oh-aew has enrolled to improve his chances of getting into the college and field of his liking. He is surprised to see Teh as his tutor. But, when the two begin to spend more time together, they start rekindling their friendship. However, new feelings are beginning to creep in, with the Cupid waiting to shoot his arrow. The second part, I Promised You The Moon, follows Teh and Oh-aew’s changing relationship with new friendships and feelings pulling them away from each other once again.  Duan Yi is a popular music composer with various prestigious projects under his belt. He is offered to compose a romantic song, which he confidently accepts. However, he hits a roadblock when he begins the work. Lacking a muse that’ll inspire him to write about love, Duan becomes disenchanted with his work and decides to take a break. Just as he’s about to completely give up, he meets the charismatic barista Pleng Ruk at a local coffee place. Having found his muse, he returns to composing with his heart and mind fleeting between his work and his new interest, the barista. The drama is as warm as your first cuppa and will bring a smile to your face.  Sky is devastated by his father’s death. He is slowly picking up the pieces of his life with the help of his best friend, Paper. As time passes, Sky and Paper’s relationship takes a romantic turn. Meanwhile, heartbreak has led Jeno to shut himself off from others. Unable to see Jeno waste his life away, a colleague decides to help him by making him open up. But making Jeno forget the scars of past wounds is easier said than done. The relationships of the two pairs are juxtaposed against each other and the four men learn to accept their present, let go of the past and give love a second chance. Look Good Live Well Get Smart Entertainment Cricket Binge Watch Horoscope Relationships Weddings Magazine GQ Style & Culture Awards Men of the year GQ Wardrobe Best Dressed The Showcase The Platinum Man Edition Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия  © 2024 Condé Nast