For premium support please call: For premium support please call: If you’re searching for ways to enjoy movies without spending a dime, you’re in luck. A variety of free movie apps that legally stream content right to your device are now available. From ad-supported platforms to library-connected services, these 15 apps offer entertainment without breaking the bank. Read: How To Get Cash Back on Your Everyday Purchases Tubi offers over 50,000 free movies and TV shows. It’s ad-supported, so you don’t need to worry about subscriptions or fees. And to answer the question, “Is Tubi TV legal?” Yes, Tubi operates legally and is a safe way to enjoy streaming content. Free live news and sports channels Available to stream on your TV, streaming stick, game console and iOS, Android and Windows devices You can make suggestions of movies or shows you want on Tubi. No sign-up is required to watch. Ad-supported: Expect four to eight minutes of ads per hour of viewing. Content is a bit dated. Crackle offers a mix of movies, TV shows and original content. Like Tubi, it’s a reliable and legal way to watch entertainment at no cost. No registration necessary to watch Available to stream on Android, Apple, streaming sticks, Smart TVs and game consoles Allows users to make suggestions for content Ad-supported content Limited kid’s library compared to some other platforms Dated content Pluto TV offers a wide array of both live TV channels and on-demand movies, which means you can avoid having to pay for a streaming subscription service and still get a fair amount of content. However, while it’s more like a cable experience than other free apps, it still doesn’t measure up to paid streaming services in terms of up-to-date content. More than 250 live channels and thousands of free movies and TV shows No signup is necessary to watch Live sports channel content isn’t live — instead it’s a replay. Wide array of content, but it’s mostly older. Ad-supported Freevee is now Amazon’s free, ad-supported streaming service, but it was once owned by IMDb. You don’t need an Amazon Prime subscription to watch content, however. Everchanging catalog of movies and TV shows You don’t have to sign-in to the app to watch. No live TV channels Ad-supported Vudu, known for its rental content, also offers a free section of movies and TV shows on its app. Free TV shows and movies that are clearly marked Options to buy or rent content within the same app 4K content only available with rental options You must create an account to watch free content. Less free content than other free movies apps offer If you have a library card, you might be able to access Kanopy for free. It offers a range of independent films, documentaries, foreign films and classic cinema through its partnerships with public libraries and universities. Educational and entertainment content Free access with a library card Must be a member of a participating public or university library to access. Popcornflix is another legal platform offering free movies. From comedies to dramas, you might find something to enjoy here. But like other free streaming apps, you won’t find the latest premium content. Wide variety of genres Claims it has way-fewer ads than regular TV Ad-supported No specific section for kid’s content Hoopla works with local libraries to provide free access to movies, TV shows, ebooks, comics, audiobooks and songs. Check with your library to see if its participates. Free access to movies and wide variety of other content No subscriptions or fees Limited to participating libraries Filmzie offers its users award-winning movies, shorts, documentaries and independent films for free. But don’t expect to find mainstream content here. No account needed to watch content Claims to have less ads than traditional TV Does not offer blockbuster movie titles The Roku Channel offers thousands of free movies, plus TV shows, including classics, kid’s entertainment and over 350 live streaming channels. Watch free content without a Roku device or subscription. New titles added weekly Selection of popular movies Ad-supported Although you might only know Redbox by its kiosk movie rentals, it also offers free streaming content on its app. Free live and on-demand TV No sign-up or subscription needed Limited content compared to other apps Ad-supported Plex is a huge free streaming service that offers more than 50,000 on-demand titles and over 300 live TV channels. However, you can’t watch it for free from all of your devices. Large library of content No account needed to watch on your PC Free services are ad-supported Subscription needed to watch content on mobile devices Rakuten Viki is a collection of Asian movies and TV shows. Some are available to watch for free and others require a Viki Pass. No subscription or account needed to watch free content Subtitles are available in over 150 languages. Free content is limited compared to other streaming apps Newest content requires paid subscription FilmRise is regarded as the largest independent provider of free movies and TV, giving users access to over 10,000 hours of content. Wide variety of content, including acclaimed movies and classic TV shows No subscriptions needed Limited in terms of the latest releases Sling Freestream offers over 210 live TV channels and more than 40,000 on-demand shows and movies for free. Large library of on-demand content No account needed to watch Ad-supported content Pales in comparison to Sling’s paid services With these 15 free movie apps and platforms, you have plenty of options to enjoy a wide variety of movies, TV shows and more without having to open your wallet. While they aren’t as robust or current as paid streaming platforms, they are a good option when your goal is to access free entertainment. This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: Top 15 Free Movie Apps: Your Ticket to Entertainment Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement