 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN Viki Ntafillis is a journalist at ABC North and West SA in Port Pirie. She has previously worked as a journalist in the ABC Adelaide newsroom, and before that was a reporter in the Murraylands. You can email her at Ntafillis.Viki@abc.net.au.  The Dalhousie goby, catfish and hardyhead, all located in a freshwater spring in outback South Australia, join a threatened species list growing larger by the year. Topic:Endangered and Protected Species Members of Kyle Chalmers's first swim club in his South Australian hometown are ecstatic over his silver medal success and some are already setting their sights on the Brisbane Games. Topic:Swimming More than 200km from Adelaide, South Australia's oldest Greek community club celebrates 100 years since their ancestors travelled there for a new life in Australia. Topic:Immigration When Rob Rankine saw the local nursing home sitting empty, he decided to do something about it. Now 18 people, including employee Mia Harris, have a place to call home.  Topic:Rental Housing The federal opposition has proposed Port Augusta could host one of the nuclear power plants it plans to build if elected, but the announcement has drawn mixed opinions from the community. Topic:Nuclear Issues Swordfish are rarely seen on beaches, let alone South Australian ones. Mark Drummond, a fisherman, says it's the kind of find that will only come "once in a lifetime". Topic:Fish When six-year-old Charlie watched a Bluey episode where the pup made a lemonade stand, it motivated him to start saving. An expert says the vital money skills he's learning will help him throughout life. Topic:Children An Adelaide business owner accused of indecently assaulting women during job interviews across a period of 13 months has been released on electronically monitored home detention bail. Topic:Courts and Trials In 1954, a group of Greek merchant seamen deserted a cargo steamer in Port Pirie in a risky bid to start new lives in Australia. The legacy they created is "amazing". Topic:Immigration These television towers, and their quirky histories, live on in some towns in the Mid North and Yorke Peninsula in South Australia despite the analogue signal ending in Australia in 2013. Topic:Television For more than 120 years, a question involving magpies has endlessly ruffled feathers — why is the bird on South Australia's state flag called a piping shrike? Trying to come up with an answer can feel like a wild goose chase, but ornithologists insist there's a simple solution. Topic:Birds A memorial hall in the regional South Australian town of Bruce is sold in a public auction held by the local council to the dismay of residents, as other country communities work to repurpose and reclaim their own aging public places. Topic:Regional Communities Eric has become a popular regular at Port Broughton in South Australia, but there are safety concerns for the dolphin and swimmers after complaints to the local council about people getting "rough" with him. Topic:Animals SA Health says findings in the latest report on blood lead levels in children living in Port Pirie are "mixed". Topic:Child Health and Behaviour The cause of a fire that destroyed a wind turbine north of Adelaide today is set to be investigated, with the cost of the damage estimated at $2.2 million. Topic:Industrial Fires University student Rhianna Hilditch was recently shocked to discover she was not eligible for a student concession on Adelaide's public transport system because she takes courses online — but some are pushing for that rule to be changed. Topic:Public Transport Hundreds of students walk out of classrooms across Melbourne and Adelaide to take part in protests as they strike to demand an end to the Israel-Gaza War. Topic:War Kym Allen Parsons, who is accused of carrying out 10 bank robberies while armed with a rifle in South Australia, has had assets frozen by a South Australian court. Topic:Courts and Trials Environmental scientist and activist Timothy Jarvis says he hopes his new title as South Australia's 2024 Australian of the Year would inspire people to help stop climate change in any way they can. Topic:Awards and Prizes Damian Jamieson moves carefully to avoid aggravating a back injury sustained in a workplace accident. But when he's fully submerged underwater, exercise physiologists have a hard time stopping him.  Topic:Rehabilitation Chelsea Taylor thought university was the only option after school. But after three unfinished degrees and $30,000 in student debt, she felt "really, really lost" — until she became a train driver. Topic:Education The SA government says "granny flat reform" will add to rental supply, but the opposition is questioning how many extra dwellings will be ready for the market. Topic:Housing Policy More than two decades after the Spin Dragon disaster, and nine years after another accident at the same show claimed the life of an eight-year-old girl, this Adelaide mum is alarmed by an apparent lack of amusement ride safety reform. Topic:Agricultural Shows and Industry Events When Carly Moore walks out onto the diamond in Canada this week, she will become the first South Australian to represent Australia at a Women's Baseball World Cup. She's hoping to inspire more local females to step up to the plate. Topic:Sport A new initiative funded by the federal government is helping people living with disabilities and charities connect to reap the mutual benefits of volunteering.  Topic:Volunteers If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC. If you are a whistleblower, believe you have sensitive information that should be made public, or wish to protect your identity, find our more secure options. Not confidential? Contact ABC News and investigations. We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)