Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия If you are looking to move out of the K-drama world or Thai BL drama, there are some interesting, binge-worthy Chinese dramas that you can watch. Chinese dramas, or C-dramas as they are popularly called, have content spanning genres like historical, crime, and legal thrillers, romcom, mystery, etc. It’s also an interesting zone to venture into if you like watching Korean dramas or Japanese anime. So, without much ado, spruce up your watch list with these interesting thriller C-dramas.   This crime thriller C-drama focuses on the partnership between a criminal psychologist and his young assistant, and the numerous cases they solve. Brilliant criminal psychologist Dr Simon Bo (Wallace Huo) is known for using unorthodox methods to analyse cases. He teams up with Jenny Jian (Sandra Ma), the daughter of a veteran police officer, to delve into the minds of criminals to understand their psyche. As the narrative progresses, their professional relationship turns into a deep, personal bond. The duo along with a police officer and a close friend, embark on a thrilling ride, solving mystifying criminal cases.  This suspenseful psychological thriller is a Chinese remake of the popular American drama of the same name. The three-part series stars Lan Cheng-lung, Deng Jiajia, and Han Pengyi in pivotal roles. The series follows a devoted family man, Dr Dai Huan, whose happy world is upended when he receives a mysterious box at his home. His nightmare begins when the letter in the box forces him to participate in a sinister killing game or face the death of his beloved family. The chilling choice pushes him over the edge as he engages in a high-stakes game and races against time to find his tormentor. Watch Dai, who is forced to make some tough choices, navigating the twisted world that he is thrown into.  Based on the eponymous novel by Liu Cixin, this C-drama is a heart-racing sci-thriller. The plot follows a renowned specialist in nanomaterials, Wang Miao. He is hired by Detective Shi Qiang, a counterterrorism expert. They team up to unravel the increasing number of suicides in the scientific community. Their investigation leads them to a secret organisation called Frontiers of Science. Wang makes a startling discovery: the suicides are strangely linked to an alien diaspora from a popular virtual reality game called Three-Body. The two then set out to delve deeper into the game to put an end to the suicides and learn what the secret society is up to.  This is a gripping historical, action thriller. The drama starts with a group of wicked thieves concocting a plot to rob a sleepy town known to be the home of a fabled, powerful weapon. The robbery takes a deadly turn when they find the box empty and die mysteriously. Meanwhile, Long Yao (Wen Sheng), hailing from a royal family, and a fearless warrior with exceptional martial arts skills, is intrigued by the mystical weapon. He puts his skills to use and undertakes a covert mission to find the missing weapon. His search leads him to the town’s investigator, Shi Jing Yao (Li Jia Ming), who later becomes his ally. They later cross paths with a warrior queen, Li Huang Wu (Lan Xin), out to avenge her father’s death, and Zhao Ge (Yu Nai Jia), who possesses magical powers. The action-packed narrative focuses on the four trying to find the coveted mysterious weapon.   He Fei (Zhu Yilong) and his wife Muzi (Janice Man) are celebrating their first anniversary at an island resort. Their happiness is short-lived as Muzi mysteriously disappears and the police refuse to register a case. Frustrated, Fei stays back to look for Muzi. Two weeks later, a woman appears claiming to be Muzi. Surprisingly, Muzi’s photo has been replaced with that of the woman’s and the video footage is also tempered. Dejected but refusing to give in, he hires a high-profile lawyer, Chen Mai (Ni Ni) to prove that the woman is not his real wife. The plot becomes murkier when shocking secrets about Fei and Muzi come to the fore culminating in a mind-blowing plot twist. This mystery-thriller movie will have you in its grip from the word go.     Inspector Sheung Sing (Benjamin Yuen), working with the Narcotics Bureau, suffers from PTSD following a fatal gunshot which nearly cost him his life. Bingo (Philip Keung), the one who shot Sing, happens to be an undercover cop working for and trying to teach Chief Superintendent Man Hei-wah (Kara Wai) a lesson for abuse of power. When Sing gets entangled in a conspiracy, Bingo seeks him out and enlists his help in bringing down Man. The fast-paced action-thriller gives a glimpse into the lives of undercover agents, battling moral dilemmas.   Set during the Tang Dynasty, this visually appealing historical thriller takes us back in time and is a great combination of mystery, crime-solving, and martial arts. The plot revolves around a brilliant detective, Jian Bu Zhi (Tim Yu), exceptionally well-versed in martial arts and famous for his ability to solve the most perplexing cases. However, he suffers from amnesia. He sets out to find the mysterious killer who murdered his father. As he launches his investigation, he crosses paths with formidable martial artists, warlocks, demons, and villains with supernatural powers. While unmasking the villains, he finds strong allies in his new friends – Zhao Wo Hai (Wang Yan Yang), Ming Yue (Ma Zhe Han), and Zhang Shi Qi (Wang Ruo Shan). As the narrative progresses, romance blooms among the friends with their evil adversaries becoming more powerful. Look Good Live Well Get Smart Entertainment Cricket Binge Watch Horoscope Relationships Weddings Magazine GQ Style & Culture Awards Men of the year GQ Wardrobe Best Dressed The Showcase The Platinum Man Edition Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия  © 2024 Condé Nast