Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия It’s a new month, which means new K-content to satiate K-drama fans. The year has been good so far with several Korean dramas winning hearts with intriguing content. While the third season of the medical drama Dr Romantic, which was released at the end of April, is slowly gaining momentum, all eyes are on what May has to offer. From sci-fi to romcom to supernatural, the month is packed with exciting content.  Yoon Hae-jun is a reporter and Baek Young-yoon is an aspiring writer. Hae-jun is on a quest to track a serial killer for his story and Young-yoon wants to prevent her parents from getting married. A strange turn of events transports them to the year 1987 and they soon realise that somehow their goals and destiny are intertwined. This sweet time-travel romance will get you hooked as you wait in anticipation of the future.  One of the most anticipated K-dramas, the series stars K-pop band EXO’s Sehun. Go Yoo (Sehun) and Goo Joon-hee (Jo Joo-young) are best friends. Go Yoo is a popular basketball player in his school, while Joon-hee is physically weak and has received a kidney transplant. Their friendship is put to the test when the two fall in love with the same girl, Han So-yeon (Jan Yeo-bin). But, the girl harbours a secret which will change the boys’ lives forever.  The wait is finally over, as the much-anticipated second season of the popular supernatural thriller is back. Starring Lee Dong-wook and Kim Bum as brothers Lee Yeon and Lee Rang, respectively, the gumihos (nine-tailed foxes) have already raised the expectations of what lies ahead. The events of the new season are set after the events of the first one. However, Lee Yeon is transported to the year 1938 due to a strange occurrence. He then meets his estranged half-brother Lee Rang and Ryu Hong-joo (Kim So-yeon), a former western mountain god and the owner of a popular restaurant of that era. How it alters his relations in the present world and how he manages to travel to the present is to be seen.  Another much-awaited Korean drama, this sci-fi actioner is headlined by popular South Korean actor Kim Woo Bin, who was away from the limelight for years owing to ill health. The actor marked his return to the small screen last year with the poignant drama Our Blues. Set in 2071, severe air pollution has turned the Korean peninsula into a barren land. The surviving human population cannot breathe without respiratory masks. They have to rely on delivery agents called the Knights to provide them with necessities, including oxygen. Kim Woo Bin plays 5-8, one of the knights who goes against corrupt warlords to help people. This intense drama promises to be a visual stunner.        Go Ah-in (Lee Bo-youn) is an ambitious young girl who dreams of becoming successful and leading a better life. Hailing from a poor family, Ah-in has worked hard to complete her studies and secure a job at an advertising agency. With determination and hard work, she climbs the hierarchical ladder and aims to become the first woman female executive of the agency. The series focuses on how her icy demeanour, strong-headed personality, and ambition affect her relationships – in and outside of the workplace. This combat survival reality show features 24 women teaming up as per their profession on a remote island to win the game. They are police officers, firefighters, stunt women, soldiers, athletes, and bodyguards. The stakes are high as each woman is put through a series of tests and games.  Look Good Live Well Get Smart Entertainment Cricket Binge Watch Horoscope Relationships Weddings Magazine GQ Style & Culture Awards Men of the year GQ Wardrobe Best Dressed The Showcase The Platinum Man Edition Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия Australia Brasil Britain China España France Germany India Italia Japan Korea Middle East México Portugal South Africa Taiwan Thailand Türkiye US Россия  © 2024 Condé Nast