Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Pokemon Scarlet & Violet features a host of 400 Pokemon to choose from. Players can have their pick of them, and every new route brings new and exciting choices. With all these options available, why not opt for the speediest Pokemon around to give your opponents a run for their money?
      Related: Pokemon Anime: Best Kanto Episodes
                     Speed is generally the most valuable stat in any Pokemon battle. Why? Because the Pokemon with the higher Speed stat moves first. Moving first means you're always in the driver's seat. Deal damage, set up entry hazards, or otherwise execute your strategy: The choice is yours, and you have the advantage while doing so. If you're looking for a valuable speedster for your party, here are the fastest Pokemon in all of Paldea, ranked by base Speed.
                         One of the most infamous Flying-type Pokemon in the franchise, Talonflame is still a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield. Its base Speed of 126 is incredibly high, ensuring that the blazing bird can outpace nearly everything the game has to throw at you.
                         Its exclusive Hidden Ability, Gale Wings, gives priority to all Flying-type moves, but only when the user's HP is full. Before Game Freak was forced to nerf the Ability, the mighty Brave Bird was a 120 base power priority move that could be used as such repeatedly. It was needlessly powerful. Now, Talonflame still boasts solid damage and utility (with Tailwind and Will-O-Wisp among its options), but must be played a little more thoughtfully.
                         The fastest Eeveelution there is, Jolteon is an Electric-type powerhouse that can do some real damage if unopposed. It has a rather high Special Attack of base 110, which means it can take full advantage of the most powerful special Electric moves like Thunder and Thunderbolt.
      Related: Pokemon Scarlet & Violet: Best Electric-Type Pokemon, Ranked
                     However, Jolteon comes with a caveat: It is a glass cannon through and through. Mediocre HP and Defense, at base 65 and 60 respectively, means that it can easily be revenge killed by most foes that can withstand an attack from it (few can outspeed it). Clever use of Volt Switch is typically employed, allowing it to deal a solid blow and then retreat before taking great damage in retaliation.
                         The Paradox form of Misdreavus, Flutter Mane, is a Ghost/Fairy type with a lot of promise. Its Speed and Special Attack stats are both base 135, which seems to make it the very definition of a special sweeper. While it can't take a physical hit at all, its Special Defense is also base 135.
                         With its excellent STAB combination, Flutter Mane was built to dispense damage rather than absorb it, and players will tend to find that it performs very well for them in that role. It's vital, however, to watch out for the one thing that can easily dispatch any frail, speedy Pokemon: Priority. Its biggest threat of all is Shadow Sneak, which it's weak to. All in all, it's no surprise that this deadly Pokemon has proven so popular in competitive play.
                         Unlike Flutter Mane and Jolteon, Chien-Pao is fairly balanced in terms of stats. Its Speed is complemented by its Attack stat of 120, allowing it to take advantage of its powerful physical STAB moves. Dark and Ice is a great offensive combination, but it also has a 4x weakness to Fighting-type moves, among many other weaknesses.
                         In addition, Chien-Pao also has the ability Sword of Ruin, which lowers the Defense of all Pokemon on the field other than itself. This further leans into Chien-pao's strength of putting down opponents with extreme prejudice before they have a chance to make a comeback. It's not as defensively lacking as a lot of the fastest Pokemon, but it doesn't want to take hits either.
                         The Paradox form of Cyclizar and your trusty bike in Pokemon Violet is not just another token Dragon-type Legendary, intended to fill out the National Dex. It is a unique terror on the battlefield, with staggeringly high Speed combined with a similar Special Attack.
                         It has the rare Dragon/Electric typing, an extremely good defensive typing. The Ability Hadron Engine increases its Special Attack by one stage when it enters the battlefield (via the creation of Electric Terrain), making it a natural special sweeper. To top it all off, its signature move Electro Drift comes with a base power and accuracy of 100. Add in its HP and Defense of base 100, and a Special Defense that's slightly higher than that, and Miraidon is a tremendous all-rounder.
                         Koraidon is Miraidon's Pokemon Scarlet counterpart, boasting the same stats but with its Attack and Special Attack switched. It also has the Ability Orichalcum Pulse, which puts bright sunlight into effect on the field while raising its Attack by one stage. This can be put to great use by Koraidon's teammates if they're built for it. A Pokemon with the Chlorophyll Ability may even outpace the speedy Koraidon itself.
                         However, Koraidon's Fighting/Dragon typing gives it a 4x weakness to ever-threatening Fairy-type moves, making it overall less defensive than Miraidon.
                         An offensive Pokemon through and through, Barraskewda is a physical Water-type attacker with access to excellent coverage moves like Close Combat. With 123 as its Attack stat, it takes full advantage of varied moveset. STAB options include the powerful Liquidation, which has a 20% chance to lower the target's Defense.
                         However, what makes Barraskewda a real menace is its ability, Swift Swim. This raises its already incredible Speed to ridiculous levels during rain. Unless your opponent is hitting Barraskewda with a priority move, this Pokemon will essentially always act first during this field effect (unless Trick Room or other Speed-meddling moves have been used). It even boasts formidable priority of its own in Aqua Jet.
                         The paradox form of Delibird, Iron Bundle is a special sweeper with a Speed stat of base 136. It has decent physical defenses, making it somewhat of an oddity among special sweepers, who usually lean more toward special bulk than physical.
      Related: Pokemon Scarlet & Violet: How To Get & Use Rare Candies
                     Iron Bundle is an Ice/Water type Pokemon, which means there are few glaring weaknesses for opponents to take advantage of. Its Ability Quark Drive raises its highest stat by one stage, which will typically be its Speed. In addition, it gains access to some powerful moves like Freeze Dry and Ice Beam. It also learns Flip Turn fairly early, allowing it to switch out of battle easily.
                         With a base Speed of 142, Dragapult is faster than almost every other Pokemon in the region. When trained in Speed EVs and complemented by a beneficial nature, it's all but uncatchable. It also helps that Dragapult has high mixed offensive stats and benefits from learning some of the best Dragon-type moves.
                         With its higher Attack, Dragon Dance and Phantom Force tend to be STAB moves of choice. For the remaining two slots, you have a few options. Sucker Punch can be useful when you need some priority, and Substitute is ideal if you find a safe opportunity to set up on your opponent. Both provide good utility, while U-Turn is a get-out-of-jail card for when things aren't going your way.
                         Although technically the fastest Pokemon in the game at present, Electrode is an underwhelming addition to a team when all is said and done. Its base Speed of 150 is remarkable, but it's very frail and, while specially-oriented, its base 80 Special Attack is average at the very best.
                         It doesn't have a very wide movepool, but its access to Rain Dance and Thunder allow it to function as a lead on a rain team. It can be a pesky lead more generally, too, with an incredibly fast Taunt allowing it to interupt the opponent's plans. It certainly isn't the damage-dealer that a lot of super fast Pokemon are, though.
      Next: Pokemon Scarlet & Violet: Highest Special Attack Pokemon
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Despite no official announcement, this recent tweet by Geoff Keighley might hint at new Dying Light content. If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Sorry, we're closed.  Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. Despite not being announced, Valves' new MOBA third-person shooter Deadlock has gained over 16,000 concurrent players.