The University of the Virgin Islands Research and Technology Park Corporation (RTPark) proudly welcomed its 81st client, M1 ENTERPRISES USVI LLC (M1), as the newest RTPark Client.  This partnership will provide healthcare technology resources through a hybrid in-person classroom and online instructor-led training model. These resources and training will support the growth of healthcare and technology-related career fields in the Virgin Islands.  M1 will also introduce nationally recognized certifications for remote medical coding (inpatient and outpatient) and medical billing-related education throughout the USVI. Peter H. Chapman, RTPark CEO, welcomed M1 to the territory and expressed his appreciation for its passion for workforce development in a sector of our community and economy that has been in recovery for several years. “We are thrilled to have M1 join the RTPark client community.  Their track record of providing quality healthcare support services nationally to the public and private sectors adds a level of momentum to the strengthening of our community’s health system, which is currently at a critical transition point,” Chapman said. “They are not only adding stock to the tech and healthcare ecosystem in the territory but taking it a step further by actively doing their part to nurture a segment of the USVI’s next generation of healthcare professionals.” M1 plans to create, promote and nurture its “learn, live and working remotely” model to Virgin Islanders interested in entering the healthcare industry through hybrid in-person classroom training and instructor-led online instruction. The RTPark congratulates M1 for recently being approved by the V.I. Department of Labor (VIDOL) as a workforce development provider and will start their first training course for medical billers in January 2023 at the RTPark on the UVI campus on St. Croix. M1 is an Arkansas-based multilevel healthcare company providing 30 years of healthcare knowledge through healthcare support services, as well as medical coding and billing certification, education and workforce training as a sustainable remote workforce development solution for communities in recovery. In November 2022, they announced the official expansion of their operations to the USVI by becoming an RTPark client and have begun the relocation of their headquarters from Arkansas to the territory. CEO Chapman stated that the addition of M1’s workforce development program comes at an exciting time for the RTPark, which has taken active steps in bolstering the Virgin Islands STEM Talent Archive (VISTA+) in the last year with the support of the Department of Labor.  VISTA+ is RTPark’s signature talent attraction and retention platform that connects VI STEM professionals with opportunities to work in the territory. “It’s important to us that we not only grow our tech ecosystem with impactful businesses but also build the workforce of local talent that will drive the success of these companies at all levels in our community.  With the support of M1’s “learning, living and working remotely” model, we can build a strong pipeline of Virgin Islands talent in this particular field, add them to our database, showcase them to our growing tech and healthcare sector, thus providing Virgin Islanders with high paying jobs here at home all the while strengthening the economy,” said Champman. Doug Rideout, president of M1, said, “The combination of our healthcare industry knowledge blended with our healthcare training programs will improve reimbursements for healthcare facilities and provide high-level workforce training to create remote workforce jobs for the residence of the U.S. Virgin Islands and have a sustainable positive impact on the economy.” M1, which is also a veteran-owned small business, provides myriad healthcare support services which include healthcare revenue cycle consulting, medical coding, medical billing, medical transcription, medical records scanning services, compliance, process improvement consulting, denial management services, electronic health record consulting, health information management consulting and business development, merged with their healthcare and technology workforce training programs. The RTPark is a comprehensive economic development organization (EDO) designed to diversify the USVI economy and promote investment in the territory by attracting technology and sustainable development enterprises, and offering other technical support services. The primary goal of RTPark is to establish the U.S. Virgin Islands as a premier business destination of choice for advanced industry firms. Doug Rideout thanks M1’s investors, teaming partners and everyone that supports their efforts to have a greater impact through creative thinking, innovation and entrepreneurship.  The RTPark looks forward to seeing Virgin Islanders being trained as medical coders and the growth of a more sustainable and resilient workforce through an innovative, diversified economy. For more information about M1 Enterprises USVI LLC or its Healthcare Related Consulting Services, email: Doug@M1enterprises.com To learn more about M1 healthcare and technology-related training, email: mynewcareer@M1enterprises.com To learn more about the UVI Research and Technology Park visit: www.uvirtpark.net Unlike many news organizations, we haven't put up a paywall – we want to keep our journalism as accessible as we can. Our independent journalism costs time, money and hard work to keep you informed, but we do it because we believe that it matters. We know that informed communities are empowered ones. If you appreciate our reporting and want to help make our future more secure, please consider donating. Log in to leave a comment Now Playing: “Alien: Romulus”   
OUR TV News live coverage of the DNC Convention 2024 in Chicago. Democratic National Convention: Day 1.  Watch LIVE on OUR TV. Powered by Kalalloo Alliance Media OUR TV Network on Amazon Fire Tv, Android Tv, Apple Tv, ROKU, Tempo Networks, Google & Apple Apps, ourtv.network/ 
... See MoreSee Less
  0 CommentsComment on Facebook Since 1999 the Virgin Islands Source – the only online newspaper of general circulation in the U.S. Virgin Islands – has been providing the community with reliable, accurate and balanced local journalism. Contact us: visource@gmail.com © 1999-2024 Virgin Islands Source