Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     As of Pokemon Scarlet and Violet, there are 18 Pokemon types available, though they are not all created equally. Historically, Ice-types have been underused, in part because of their weak defensive capabilities. This has been somewhat mended with Pokemon Scarlet and Violet, which brings weather condition changes that raise the Defense of Ice-types. However, there are very few new Ice-type Pokemon to show off this important buff.
                         The new Ice-types aren't bad, though. Cetoddle is one of the cutest Pokemon ever made, and Baxcalibur is a fierce-looking pseudo-Legendary. Nevertheless, the shortage of new Ice-types makes players less likely to use this type and realize that it is not as defensively weak as it once was.
      RELATED: How Pokemon Scarlet and Violet's Paradox Pokemon Differ From Legends: Arceus' Hisuian Forms
                     Ice-type Pokemon have been around since Gen 1, and although the type has its weaknesses, it packs enough advantages to still make it worth using. They can often use multiple Ice-types moves that can trigger the Frozen status condition on hit, rendering opponents unable to act for multiple turns. Ice-type moves are also 2x effective against Dragon-type creatures, which comes in handy because dragons are powerful foes that can deal a great deal of damage in a short time.
                         Many Trainers tend to neglect Ice-type Pokemon, in part because the type performs poorly defensively. It has no immunities, and its only resistance is to other Ice-types. In Scarlet and Violet, players are given more reason to use Ice-types thanks to the buff it gets. Snow replaces Pokemon's weather condition Hail. With Hail, all Pokemon that aren't Ice-type lose 1/6 of their HP at the end of every turn. This is useful, though Snow is even more useful, as it instead grants Ice-types a 50% Defense boost. This gives players a lot more reasons to use Ice-types, as they can stay on the battlefield for longer. This would have been the perfect opportunity to introduce plenty of new Ice-types, but Scarlet and Violet don't do this.
                         Although there are a few Ice-types from past generations to be found, there aren't too many new cold creatures to discover. The only new pure Ice-type evolutionary line introduced belongs to Cetoddle. This adorable Pokemon waddles everywhere, and it eventually evolves into Cetitan, which is a much bigger creature with a mean face. Players also get the half-Ice evolutionary line belonging to Frigibax. This Dragon/Ice evolves into Arctibax and eventually Baxcalibur, which is a pseudo-legendary Pokemon. This is about it as far as new regular Ice-type Pokemon go.
                         There are two additional Ice-types introduced, but they fall into special categories. This includes Chien-Pao, a Dark/Ice dual-type that is one of the three Treasures of Ruin. The other creature is Iron Bundle which is a Paradox Pokemon that is the future form of Delibird. It is an Ice/Water Pokemon, and while Delibird isn't a competitive team member, Iron Bundle has high stats that make it lethal on the battlefield. The lack of new Ice-types is disappointing, as it means that many players won't get the opportunity to use Ice-types and discover that they have become a lot more competitively viable.
                         Despite there being very few new Ice-type Pokemon, the well-needed buff to the type is welcome. Furthermore, the overall Pokemon designs from this generation are quite satisfying and include cute creatures like Tinkaton and mighty monsters like Iron Thorns. With rumors of there being Scarlet and Violet DLC in the works, there could be more opportunities for Game Freak to introduce more Ice-types.
      Pokemon Scarlet and Violet are available on Nintendo Switch.
      MORE: Pokemon Scarlet and Violet Put Game Freak at a Fork in The Road With The Nidoran Lines
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. After months of speculation since Tekken 8's launch, it has been confirmed Heihachi Mishima is returning as a DLC fighter, raising some questions. This guide will make it easy for players find the three Meditation Spots that are within Black Myth: Wukong's Black Wind Mountain. Niantic releases a short teaser trailer for Pokemon GO, strongly hinting at a new feature arriving into the game when the next season launches. Pokemon Unite confirms the addition of three new characters, bringing a trio of Pokemon very popular with fans to Aeos Island. Rick and Morty: The Anime full-fledged series originated from the success of the anime shorts, as revealed by the executives. Dragon Age: The Veilguard seems primed and ready to benefit from a Dragon's Dogma 2 pre-release tactic that became a huge hit among fans. JJK is nearing its end with chapter 267. The mystery behind Sukuna's finger starts unveiling.