Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     EAST YORK, Pa. — Before heading out the door in the summer, you tend to check the forecast to see how hot it’s going to be. But there’s another number you should be focusing on too: the UV index. It’s a helpful tool when it comes to staying safe in the summer sun. But what exactly does that mean? The UV Index is a forecast of the amount of ultraviolet radiation expected to reach the Earth’s surface when the sun is highest in the sky. Rachel Mowry, nurse practitioner at WellSpan Health, says this radiation is what causes problems on our skin. “UV radiation is coming from the sun, and when it hits our skin, it’s actually damaging the skin. It can cause the burns to the outside of the skin, but it’s actually affecting deeper into the skin, which is what can lead to skin cancer," she said. It’s this time of year that Mowry sees the most patients, both kids and adults, at Urgent Care coming in with sunburns. Mowry says many people don't know how to properly use sunscreen to protect themselves from the sun.  When you check the UV index for the day, you will see a number ranging from one to 11 or even higher. This value is calculated using the elevation of the sun in the sky, the amount of ozone present and the amount of clouds.  As the index gets higher, the amount of time it takes to damage your skin gets shorter. “UV is the worst between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.," Mowry told FOX43. "So especially during those times you want to be extra careful. But you should be careful all the time while outside, even if it’s cloudy or you think you’re not going to get a sunburn, you can still burn.” Mowry says the best line of defense against this radiation is to apply and reapply sunscreen of SPF 30 or greater. This will prevent you from getting burns in the short term and will help your health in the long term. If you do happen to get a sunburn, you can often treat it with home remedies like aloe lotion. However, if your burn is severe or causes problems such as fever or extreme pain, Mowry suggests calling your doctor or going to an Urgent Care. Download the FOX43 app here. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.