Pokemon SV Mewtwo raid boss Pokémon Scarlet and Violet have been holding monthly 7-star Tera Raid events basically since the game launched, with heaps of powerful starter Pokémon being introduced to the game through those challenges. They’re a lot of fun, being challenging end-game content that requires a lot of thought and strategy to come away successful. The latest challenge is not quite so fun. As part of a big promotion involving Mew and Mewtwo, the latest 7-star Tera Raid is Mewtwo, and it hits like a truck strapped to a rocket. Developer Game Freak seems to have set out to make the most insufferable, challenging, annoying raid in the history of video games, and they were 100% successful. So what makes Mewtwo so annoying? Well, first of all, its move set is pretty hard to get around. It uses its signature move, Psystrike, which calculates damage using physical defense despite being a special move. That’s easy to get around, right? Just build physical defense instead of special. Except it’s also running Aura Sphere and Ice Beam, two very powerful special moves that also give Mewtwo a huge range of coverage. The Pokémon Company That’s not even the worst part, though. Mewtwo immediately puts up its shield at the start of the raid, making it harder to deal damage, and then once you finally break that shield… it uses Rest, restoring its health back to full. It’s essentially a full reset of the battle, and while you’re battered, bruised, and low on PP, Mewtwo is picture perfect. Especially since it’s holding a Chesto Berry to wake it back up right away. There is, at least, one saving grace. Mew gets a big boost to its stats if you bring it into this specific raid, increasing its HP stat by 50% and all of its other stats by 20%. Its base stat total effectively rivals that of Rayquaza, making it pretty formidable, but since those stats are evenly spread out, it doesn’t excel at much. The current best strat for beating the 7-Star Mewtwo event seems to be bringing an entire team of four Mews into the raid, with some attacking and some using support moves to keep everyone healthy and stop Mewtwo from raising its stats too much. Even with an optimal strategy though, it’s a long raid, taking up to 10 minutes per attempt, and one wayward critical hit could spell the end of your run. Thankfully, the raid runs until September 17, 2023, so you’ve got plenty of time to try it out. Good luck. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?