A new leak about the Pokémon Scarlet & Violet DLC suggests that it will include new paradox forms for the remaining legendary beasts. Last month’s Nintendo Direct kicked off with new footage from Pokémon Scarlet & Violet’s two DLC expansions, which are both due to launch by the end of the year. While said footage showed more of the new areas you’ll get to explore, and some returning pokémon absent from the main game, it was pretty short and has still left fans with plenty of questions. However, a new rumour is making the rounds claiming to know what the DLC entails, including 15 entirely new pokémon, some of which are more paradox forms of existing pokémon. The rumour does originate from 4chan, which is not a good start, but there was a previous Pokémon leak from 4chan that wound up being correct and this latest rumour has been highlighted and shared by Twitter user Pyoro, who leaked several details about the latest Direct, including the new 2D Mario game. Pyoro implies they know things about the DLC too and while they do say some of this leak is inaccurate, they imply that the majority is correct. I can’t say all of this is accurate tho As for what the rumour claims, some of the 15 new pokémon are ones already revealed in pre-release materials. The rest, however, include two new regional pokémon (a bird and a bug) that will be exclusive to the first expansion, The Teal Mask, and paradox forms of the remaining members of the legendary beasts and Swords of Justice. As a reminder, Suicune (from the beasts trio) and Virizion (from the swords trio) received paradox forms as part of Scarlet & Violet’s Tera Raids. So, it’s reasonable to assume that the other pokémon from those trios – Entei, Raikou, Cobalion, and Terrakion – would follow suit. Although it could also include the mythical pokémon Keldeo as well, since it is considered a member of the Swords of Justice group. New Nintendo Direct confirmed for August and it’s a special one… Nintendo Switch 2 and PS5 Pro shipments start from September claims company Rockstar Games’ Bully listed for new release as fans hope for PS5 and Xbox remaster Silent Hill 2 remake hands-on preview and interview - horrific in a good way The rumour also alleges that Ogerpon, the mascot of The Teal Mask, will be a pure grass type, while the new trio of Okidogi, Munkidori, and Fezandipiti will be poison/fairy, poison/ghost, and poison/psychic, respectively. The official website does say all three boast a new Toxic Chain ability, which strongly implies they’re at least poison types, and it’d make sense for them to have different secondary types to keep them distinct. The Teal Mask is scheduled to launch in the autumn, so you have a few months to see how much of the leak is accurate. The second expansion, The Indigo Disk, will follow in the winter. Pokémon Scarlet & Violet is available for Nintendo Switch. Email gamecentral@metro.co.uk, leave a comment below, follow us on Twitter, and sign-up to our newsletter. 

	MORE : Pokémon cards help police arrest man that set off Maryland explosives

 

	MORE : Pokémon cards pop up on Antiques Roadshow making all 90s kids feel extremely old

 

	MORE : Want to see what Pokémon Red and Blue would look like as a HD-2D game?

 Follow Metro Gaming on Twitter and email us at gamecentral@metro.co.uk. To submit Inbox letters and Reader’s Features more easily, without the need to send an email, just use our Submit Stuff page here. For more stories like this, check our Gaming page. Sign up to all the exclusive gaming content, latest releases before they're seen on the site.  Get us in your feed