Harvard Center for International Development (CID) is a research center working across the University and a global network of researchers and practitioners to build an international pool of talent, convene academic and practitioner networks, and deploy breakthrough research to address the world’s most pressing challenges. At CID, we believe that together we can design and implement policies that help everyone realize their full potential. CID is housed at Harvard Kennedy School.   The 2024 GEM Incubation Fund will provide financial support to new research collaborations which seek to incubate solutions, recommend policy action, and develop tools to advance gender equity in developing countries.  Ships move 90 percent of the world’s goods – 11 billion tons of food, raw materials, and consumer products valued at $20 trillion dollars per year. CID Faculty Affiliate Myrto Kalouptsidi examines world transport markets and their influence on trade and global development. CID's annual Global Empowerment Meeting (GEM) was held on May 1-2, 2024. GEM24: Breaking Barriers for Women and Girls brought together leaders in international development to discuss ways to advance gender equity. The Harvard Center for International Development (CID) supports students at all levels of their academic careers to deepen their knowledge of international development and work to build a thriving world for all. Transforming education systems and developing personalized learning journeys at scale. The Growth Lab pushes the frontiers of economic growth & development policy research, collaborates with policymakers to design actions, and shares insights through teaching, tools and publications. The Reimagining the Economy project explores local labor market, industrial, and development policies to reshape narratives about how we achieve inclusive prosperity. Creating and conducting large-scale online social economic surveys and experiments that shed light on people’s understanding and reasoning about economic matters. The Social Protection Initiative brings together researchers, governments, and nonprofits to spur the next generation of cutting-edge research in social protection in low- and middle-income countries. CID's Visiting Researcher Program welcomes PhD and Postdoc researchers to pursue their research for a year in residence at Harvard Kennedy School and join the tight-knit research community at CID. Sign up for our newsletter to receive weekly news and opportunities in international development at Harvard! Center for International Development
Harvard University
79 JFK Street
Cambridge, MA 02138