Increasing clouds with showers arriving overnight. Low 64F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 50%..
                                 Increasing clouds with showers arriving overnight. Low 64F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 50%.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 9:32 pm                          FRANCONIA NOTCH — With remarks from dignitaries, a family fun day, and exhibits from groups collaborating with the Old Man of the Mountain Legacy Fund, the second half of the 20th-anniversary remembrance of the collapse of the Old Man drew a strong turnout in the Notch on Thursday. Recognized for their contributions were the late Dick Hamilton, who founded the legacy fund to create a lasting memorial to the Old Man, who collapsed on May 3, 2003, and former state Rep. Dennis Thompson, of Stewartstown, whose company, Northern New England Field Services, did the heavy lifting in creating the memorial at Profile Plaza. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings.        
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Today's top headlines from the Caledonian-Record. Breaking News alerts from The Caledonian-Record news team. The latest business news from the Northeast Kingdom, North Country and beyond. Recent Advertisements from our partners. Stories we think you'll like - Editor's Picks from The Caledonian-Record The most read stories of the week from www.caledonianrecord.com. We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Today's top headlines from the Caledonian-Record. Breaking News alerts from The Caledonian-Record news team. The latest business news from the Northeast Kingdom, North Country and beyond. Recent Advertisements from our partners.  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.