CONTRIBUTED CONTENT — There’s no doubt that buying a home right now is expensive. Even with home prices falling post-pandemic, rising interest rates have had a profound effect on people looking for a place to call their own. Visionary Homes, a leading homebuilder in Southern Utah, is working to change that. “We understand that high interest rates are affecting the affordability of buying a home,” said Matt Relei, Southern Utah director of sales for Visionary Homes. “We want to help our buyers be able to buy a home with a mortgage payment they can afford.” Introducing the 2/1 mortgage rate buydown program, a special offer for buyers of condos and townhomes in Desert Color. You could save hundreds of dollars on your mortgage payment every month while enjoying the benefits of homeownership in a newly built property. With the 2/1 buydown program, the mortgage rate that buyers lock in today will be reduced by 2% for the first year of homeownership. The discount is then reduced to 1% for the second year. At the beginning of the third year, the loan returns to the original fixed rate. However, buyers can refinance anytime if mortgage rates decrease as projected. Visionary Homes has partnered with First Colony Mortgage as their preferred lender to simplify the borrowing process. The buydown program does have upfront costs, but Visionary Homes and First Colony Mortgage will cover those costs to pass even more savings on to buyers. Condo payments start as low as $1,678 a month with the 2/1 buydown program. Homeowners can potentially save thousands of dollars over the first two years of their loan. The 2/1 mortgage buydown offer is only available to buyers who obtain a loan through First Colony Mortgage and close on specific condos or townhomes in Desert Color before the end of 2023. Visionary Homes is currently offering quick move-in condos and townhomes in Desert Color that are finished and ready for a new owner. Features include upgraded LVP flooring, 9-foot ceilings, quartz countertops, low-emissivity white windows, stainless steel appliances and lighting fixtures selected by their expert design team. All units are equipped with the latest smart home technology, such as a Wi-Fi-enabled doorbell, thermostat, deadbolt and garage door opener. With listings starting at $309,990 for condos and $399,990 for townhomes, Visionary Homes makes the luxurious Desert Color homeownership experience attainable without a luxury price tag. Southern Utah has never seen anything quite like Desert Color. Bringing resort-style living right to your doorstep, this extraordinary master-planned development is renowned for its amenities. With miles of trails, family-friendly parks, pickleball courts and water activities, the development caters to residents of all ages and interests seeking an active lifestyle. And the best part? Everything’s just a short walk or golf cart ride away. Situated near Interstate 15 and the Southern Parkway, Desert Color spans 3,350 acres of residential and commercial properties along with a resort and a 2.5-acre lagoon. BigShots Golf is already open, and construction will soon begin on a family fun center with bowling alleys, arcade games and much more. The development will also feature a grocery store, restaurants and other exciting retail destinations. Built around a vision of connectivity, community and sustainability, it truly offers something for everyone. “Desert Color is a fabulous community that’s highly amenitized,” Relei said. “It’s a great community for living an elevated lifestyle that focuses on outdoor recreation.” The opportunity to buy a brand-new home is one of the most exciting milestones in life, and Visionary Homes knows exactly what today’s homeowners want. They’re a Utah-owned and operated company developing neighborhoods that are all about lifestyle. From the layout of streets and placement of lots to the floor plans and materials used, everything reflects the thoughtful design process that has made them a trusted homebuilder for thousands of buyers.  Visit VisionaryHomes.com or call 435-222-2441 to learn more about Desert Color and the 2/1 mortgage buydown event. Written by ALEXA MORGAN for St. George News. •  S P O N S O R E D   C O N T E N T  • Resources Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2023, all rights reserved. Sponsored content may be submitted to or developed by St. George News for publication on behalf of the sponsor and in the sponsor's interest. It may include promotional pieces, features, announcements, news releases and advertisements. Opinions expressed in sponsored content are those of the sponsor and not representative of St. George News. Sponsors have no influence over St. George News reporting and product apart from their own sponsored content. Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Download Our App