Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly. An ambitious, technology-driven economic development initiative would gain up to $500 million in endowment funding from the 2023-24 state budget bill compromise. The nonprofit NCInnovation has as its primary goal the commercialization of research developed and funded within the UNC System, utilizing regional hubs with a rural North Carolina emphasis. The amount is about 35% of the $1.4 billion that would have been provided to the NCInnovation endowment in the Senate version of the budget bill. It remains well above the $50 million provided in the Republican House state budget proposal and Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper’s recommendation. Of the $250 million in the 2023-24 budget cycle, up to $50 million could be used as investment income, while up to $90 million of the $250 million in the 2024-25 budget cycle could be used. “I believe in NCInnovation’s promise, and I’m not alone,” said Kelly King, the retired chairman and chief executive of Truist Financial Corp. who serves as chairman of NCInnovation. “Leaders in North Carolina and across the country — people who’ve built commercial enterprises and have deep experience in finance, academia and industry — say NCInnovation is a national model for translating university research into jobs. “It’s time to get to work doing just that.” Other high-profile members on NCInnovation’s Board of Directors and management team include Stan Kelly, retired president of the Piedmont Triad Partnership, UNC System President Peter Hans and N.C. A&T Chancellor Harold Martin. According to state Sen. Brent Jackson, R-Sampson, NCInnovation “will help generate homegrown industries and companies to stay in North Carolina and hire North Carolinians for decades to come.” Jackson said NCInnovation represents the offspring of a recent review of North Carolina’s innovation ecosystem by a national economic research firm. “The data revealed good news and bad news,” Jackson explained. “The good news is that our population centers are landing major economic-development projects. North Carolina is an absolute powerhouse on research and development funding” at $13 billion annually. “However, the outputs of that R&D funding doesn’t measure up to the size of our research base.” There have been similar healthcare commercialization initiatives in North Carolina, in particular involving academic medical centers and medical schools, such as Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist and Wake Forest University School of Medicine. Jackson said the reasoning for such a major funding push for NCInnovation is the increasing challenge of creating and retaining jobs in rural North Carolina. “We need to extend economic vitality to every corner of this state,” Jackson said. “To do so, we must take a visionary approach.” Brent Jackson rcraver@wsjournal.com 336-727-7376 @rcraverWSJ Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.   Building renovations are under way at the former Old Salem Tavern property, with the new version projected to open by year’s end and serving l… The 1.2 million-square-foot plant is projected to have about 1,000 employees. After being a dependable hotbed for professional wrestling dating back to the 1960s and up to 2001, Winston-Salem and Joel Coliseum have had j… The $100 million Ziehl-Abegg plant in Winston-Salem represents the German manufacturer's single-largest, one-site capital investment in its 13… The N.C. Rural Infrastructure Authority approved Thursday two grant applications for economic-development projects involving High Point and Me…  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.