GOODYEAR, Ariz. – Luke Weaver, pitching in a minor league game against Cleveland on Monday, signaled to a coach and a trainer he was done for the day after throwing warmup pitches before the fourth inning. It was a precautionary exit with a sore forearm, Weaver said, and it’s something he probably would’ve tried to push through in the past. Weaver was examined by the medical staff, which showed “nothing major or anything like that.” Still, he stopped after three innings in a scheduled four-inning outing. Reds Manager David Bell said Weaver may be pushed back from his next scheduled start. “Just felt a little off,” Weaver said. “I wasn’t able to get through the pitch. With some past experience, it wasn’t worth it in that moment. I’ve tried to be a hero a couple of times and it doesn’t really get you anywhere.” Weaver was sitting 93-94 mph with his fastball in the second inning when he gave up three runs, including back-to-back doubles after minor league shortstop Jose Torres missed a throw at second base from Weaver on a potential double play comebacker to the mound. In the third inning, Weaver’s velocity dipped to 91-93 mph. It was a 1-2-3 inning with a groundout and two flyouts, drawing multiple swings and misses.  “I don’t know if it was just mechanics that were getting a bad spot in that second inning,” Weaver said. “It dragged on in some bad spots. I was looking at my cleats and the (dirt) drag marks on them looked a little off. It’s kind of silly to say, but essentially the fact I was dragging a little higher (on the cleat) tells me I was off. I needed to be a cleaner cleat in a sense. All those details. When I’m doing it right, I’m rotating, staying back. I felt like I was maybe losing it a little bit and putting stress on the arm.” Weaver is a favorite to earn one of the two open spots in the starting rotation. He started throwing sliders, a pitch he has yet to use in a Cactus League game this spring, which induced whiffs and received good feedback from pitching coach Derek Johnson. Other starting pitchers competing for a spot in the rotation are Luis Cessa, Brandon Williamson, Chase Anderson and Connor Overton. Cessa seemingly has the inside track among that group. For a pitcher who has dealt with arm injuries in three of the last four years, Weaver is hopeful he shut things down before he made anything worse. “It came out of nowhere in a sense,” Weaver said, “so I just wanted to make sure I’m not being an idiot.” Standing at 6-foot-8, 227 pounds, relief pitcher Tayron Guerrero represents one of the more intriguing arms in Reds camp. Guerrero, a 32-year-old nonroster invitee, throws downhill with incredible extension, which makes his upper-90s fastball look even faster to hitters. The question is whether he can throw enough strikes to keep himself on the radar for the big leagues. It’s why he pitched in Japan last year and is a nonroster invitee to camp. He had a rough start in spring training games. In his first three appearances, he allowed eight runs and nine hits in three innings with five walks and four strikeouts. In his last three outings, he’s given up one hit and one run in three innings with one walk and three strikeouts. “I have to have the confidence in myself that the work I’ve been doing is going to help me attack the strike zone more,” said Guerrero, who pitched in 112 games for the Miami Marlins from 2018-19 with a 5.80 ERA. Guerrero is capable of reaching 104 mph with his fastball, but he’s been sitting at 97 mph with his fastball this spring.   “For me, it’s not really about the velo now,” he said. “I’m working more on my command, which is a lot better now. Last year to this year, it’s a lot better. My first outing here, I walked a couple of guys because the (pitch clock) got me out of my rhythm. I’m getting used to it now.” Guerrero was listed on Colombia’s provisional roster for the World Baseball Classic, but he pulled himself out of the international showcase after he struggled at the beginning of camp. “The team called me a couple of times,” Guerrero said. “I said, ‘hey, I just want to have the opportunity to work here with the Reds and see if I have the opportunity to make it to the big leagues.’ That’s why I am here. I already talked to them. They understand my plan and they support me on that too.”