Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Federal prosecutors on Thursday announced criminal charges against an 18-year-old Wisconsin man for a scheme to hack and sell access to user accounts of the sports betting site DraftKings. The man, Joseph Garrison, is accused of working with others to steal about $600,000 from approximately 1,600 victim accounts during the November 2022 attack, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Manhattan. DraftKings is not named in the criminal complaint against Garrison. But a person close to the company said it was a target of the so-called credential stuffing attack. DraftKings later confirmed it. In a statement to CNBC, DraftKings said: "The safety and security of our customers' personal and payment information is of paramount importance to DraftKings. We worked with law enforcement in catching the alleged bad actor(s), and we want to thank the Department of Justice, including the FBI and U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York, for their prompt and effective action." The company said it restored funds for the "limited number of users" who were impacted by the breach. Law enforcement authorities searched Garrison's home in Wisconsin on Feb. 23, and recovered his computer and cellphone, according to the complaint. On those devices, investigators found credential stuffing programs, instruction photos on how to use stolen user credentials to steal money from victim accounts, and messages between Garrison and co-conspirators, the complaint said. The messages included ones where Garrison wrote, "fraud is fun . . . im addicted to see money in my account . . . im like obsessed with bypassing s---," according to a court filing. The images cited in the FBI affidavit were hosted on Imgur, a popular file-sharing website. CNBC also found the same images on a website that purportedly sells compromised accounts on DraftKings and FanDuel, among others. ESPN previously reported that a cyberattack in November affected users of DraftKings and rival site FanDuel. FanDuel told CNBC it wasn't materially impacted by the attack: "Our security did its job." Garrison is charged with conspiracy to commit computer intrusions, unauthorized access to a protected computer to further intended fraud, unauthorized access to a protected computer, wire fraud conspiracy, wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. He faces a maximum possible prison sentence of 20 years if convicted, but would likely get significantly less time under federal guidelines. Chris Cylke, senior vice president for government relations at The American Gaming Association, an industry group told CNBC: "The legal gaming industry is working hard to provide consumers with safe, regulated access to betting." "Today's news reinforces the importance for law enforcement at all levels to hold fraudsters and other criminals accountable," Cylke said. –CNBC's Rohan Goswami contributed to this report. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by