Double vision occurs when a person sees a double image where there should only be one. The two images can be side by side, on top of one another, or both. It can happen for many reasons, including diabetes and a blow to the head. Double vision can affect balance, movement, and reading ability. Binocular double vision only occurs when both eyes are open. If a person closes one eye, the double vision will go away, as it is caused by each eye seeing slightly differently.  Monocular double vision may occur when the double vision results from an issue with just one eye.  Treatment of double vision depends on the cause and type. Treatments can include eye exercises, specially designed glasses, and surgery. This article looks at the causes, diagnosis, and treatment of double vision. Here are some key points about double vision:  Double vision or diplopia is an eye problem that causes a person to see two separate images of the same object.  One of the images is fainter and is called a “ghost image.” People often mistake diplopia for blurred vision. Diplopia can affect one or both eyes. In monocular diplopia, the double image persists even if the other eye is closed. The cause for this is often in the eye and unlikely because of a neurological problem.  A person with binocular diplopia sees two images only when both eyes are open. More serious conditions may cause this. Diplopia can be horizontal, vertical, or both (diagonal). Each year, diplopia results in around 850,000 visits to healthcare professionals in the United States. Approximately 95% are outpatient and nonserious, while about 16% are potentially life threatening.  What a person with diplopia sees depends on the type they have. Poor alignment causing double vision can easily be noticeable. However, sometimes, it may not be apparent and may appear when people move their eyes in a certain direction. A person can have double vision and not know it. The brain disregards the images from one eye (suppression) to remove mismatching images.  Each eye creates its own image of the environment. The brain combines the representations from each eye and perceives them as one clear picture. The eyes must work together to create depth perception. Anything that disrupts this process can cause diplopia. It can be nerve or muscle damage. Certain illnesses can weaken the muscles moving the eyes and produce double vision. Damage to the muscles that move the eyes or the nerves that control eye movement can create a double image. Damage in specific parts of the eye, like the lens or cornea, can also cause diplopia. A common cause of binocular double vision is a squint or strabismus. This condition occurs when the eyes are not correctly aligned. Strabismus is relatively common in children. However, the condition does not always result in double vision. Strabismus causes the eyes to look in slightly different directions.  This condition might be because the affected eye has the following difficulties: Sometimes, a squint can return later in life for people who had a squint as a child. In some cases, the treatment of a squint can also cause double vision. This occurs because the brain had been suppressing signals from one of the eyes in an attempt to avoid double vision. Other conditions that can cause double vision include: If double vision is noted when one eye is covered but not the other, this is referred to by eye specialists as monocular double vision. Monocular double vision is less common than binocular double vision.  The following conditions can cause monocular double vision or vice versa: Double vision can sometimes be temporary. Alcohol intoxication and drugs such as benzodiazepines, opioids, or certain anti-seizure medications can sometimes cause this. Head injuries such as concussions can also cause temporary double vision. Being particularly tired or having strained eyes can bring on temporary double vision. If correct vision does not return quickly, seek medical attention as soon as possible. Diagnosing double vision can be challenging for an eye specialist because there are many possible causes. The American Academy of Ophthalmology suggests the first step a specialist will take is asking whether the double vision is monocular or binocular. If the double vision is monocular, the problem is more likely to be within the eye rather than in the nerves. It is likely to be less serious. Children cannot always express what they see, which can make diagnosis difficult. Physical signs of double vision include: Treatment for double vision will usually depend on the underlying cause. Treatment varies depending on what is causing monocular double vision, including: Astigmatism: Corrective glasses or contact lenses can often counteract the curvature and correct the passage of incoming light into the eye. Laser surgery: This treatment involves reshaping the cornea with a laser. Cataracts: Surgery is usually the best option. The surgical procedure removes the clouding and the cause of the double vision. Complications include infection, pain, and possibly continued blurry or double vision, but prompt treatment can usually resolve these. Dry eye: If the eyes do not produce enough tears or dry out too quickly, they can become inflamed and sore. This can result in double vision. Often, a prescription for tear substitute eye drops will relieve symptoms. Depending on the cause, the treatment for binocular vision varies. Treatments include: In certain types of diplopia, botulinum toxin (Botox) may be injected into the eye muscles, causing them to remain relaxed.  However, people should remain cautious of Botox treatment in general, as there are certain contraindications. In a 2019 study, contraindications included neuromuscular disorders such as myasthenia gravis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A prism put into glasses can also help to realign the images from each eye. Prisms can be stick-on (temporary) or permanently ground into the lenses. Stick-on prisms are generally reserved for temporary diplopia or when trying different strengths of prism before getting a permanent one. Exercises cannot treat many of the conditions that cause double vision. However, some exercises can help with convergence insufficiency.  A 2017 study found that vision therapy improved vision problems, including convergence insufficiency, in people with vision problems caused by a concussion.  Vision therapy is a visual program prescribed by optometrists. It includes eye exercises that aim to develop or improve a person’s visual skills, such as the following:  Smooth convergence Jump convergence The effectiveness of these exercises is restricted mainly to treating convergence insufficiency. If symptoms do not improve, a person should visit a doctor for further testing. Read more about exercises for diplopia. The following are answers to some questions people frequently ask about double vision. A person who experiences a sudden onset of double vision should contact their healthcare professional. If the healthcare professional cannot identify the cause of the double vision, they may refer the individual to a neurologist for further examination and testing.  Neuro-ophthalmologists (doctors who manage vision issues related to the nervous system) state that the sudden onset of double vision is one of the three red-flag symptoms that indicate a person may require assessment by a neuro-ophthalmologist.  The other two red-flag symptoms are a headache accompanied by vision loss and visual loss where other ocular causes have been excluded.  Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause vision issues, such as double vision. Other vitamin deficiencies that can cause double vision include vitamin C and vitamin D.  Diplopia is an eye condition that can occur due to various causes. It may be temporary, but it can also signal a more serious condition. Treatment for diplopia depends on its cause. An eye doctor can recommend the most appropriate treatment following a thorough evaluation of the person’s diplopia. Share this article Double vision, or diplopia, occurs when a person sees two images instead of one. Doing eye exercises may be able to reduce double vision in certain… Vision problems may occur after a stroke. Learn about why these problems occur, the types of issues a person may experience, and the treatment options. Vision loss can have many causes, some of which are temporary. This article looks at the causes and treatments associated with vision loss in more… Vision loss can affect one or both eyes, depending on the cause. This article looks at the causes, symptoms, and treatments for vision loss in one eye. OUR BRANDS