Cloudy vision, different from blurry vision, is like looking through a film  You can have cloudy vision in one eye or both eyes. You may have foggy or cloudy vision suddenly when you wake up, or it can come and go. It can make it seem like you’re looking through a haze.
  There are several causes of cloudy vision, which can be related to age, health conditions like diabetes and stroke, or eye-specific conditions such as macular degeneration. Understanding the symptoms and when to see a healthcare provider are important to ensuring you can get to the bottom of the reason for your cloudy vision and begin treatment, if necessary.
  This article describes common and rare causes of cloudy vision and how they are treated. It also explains when cloudy vision in one eye is likely a minor problem like eye strain versus a more serious condition, such as macular degeneration.
 Verywell / Nez Riaz  Different conditions, both common and rare, can cause cloudy vision. Many are not a reason to worry, but some can be serious. Here's what to know about conditions that can cause cloudy vision in one eye. 
  Eye floaters are one of the most common causes of cloudy and blurry vision. Floaters look like squiggly lines, blobs, or other shapes moving across your line of vision.
  In most cases, floaters are caused by changes in the eye that come with aging. They are nothing to worry about and will go away on their own.
  However, if many floaters appear suddenly or cause central or peripheral (side) vision loss, you need to see a healthcare provider to be evaluated for causes such as a torn retina.
  Injuries or infections of the eye can also cause cloudy vision, including:
  As people age, protein in the eye breaks down and clumps together. The clumps look like cloudy spots on the lens of the eye, which are called cataracts.
  If you have mild cataracts, you may not have symptoms at first. But eventually, cloudy vision—the most recognizable sign of the condition—occurs. Your eye may also look cloudy to others.
  Other symptoms of cataracts include:
  There are also some rare but potentially serious causes of cloudy vision you should know about.
  Fuchs' dystrophy is a disease that affects the clear dome that covers the eye (cornea). It occurs when cells in the inner corneal layer die off. Fluid builds up on the cornea, blurring or clouding a person's vision.
  There are two stages of Fuchs' dystrophy. In the first stage, you may not have any symptoms. One of the first symptoms is cloudy vision when you wake up in the morning.
  Symptoms of the second stage of Fuchs' dystrophy do not go away over the day and can include:
  Age-related macular degeneration occurs when the macula at the back of the eye breaks down. Symptoms of the condition may include:
  Diabetic retinopathy is an eye condition that occurs when diabetes damages blood vessels in the retina, which is located at the back of the eye. It can cause cloudy vision or vision loss.
  While the early stages of diabetic retinopathy typically do not have noticeable symptoms, later stages can cause changes in vision or seeing dark, floating spots or streaks that look like cobwebs.
  A stroke is bleeding in your brain. You can also have a stroke in your eye. This kind of stroke happens when there is not enough blood getting to your optic nerve.
  Sudden changes to your vision can be a sign of a stroke or an eye stroke. Depending on where the bleeding is, you may have blurry or cloudy vision or lose your vision altogether.
  People with an eye stroke commonly wake up in the morning with sudden vision changes in one eye but no pain. They may wake up and not be able to see out of one eye at all. 
 Vision changes can be one of the first signs of a stroke, but there are other warning signs you should know. Learn the acronym F.A.S.T. to help recognize a stroke and get care as soon as possible:  If a brain tumor is in the parts of your brain that help you see or is putting pressure on the nerves in your eyes, it can cause vision changes.
  A brain tumor can cause blurry or cloudy vision, “seeing double,” or complete vision loss. 
  Sometimes, the tumor starts in the brain. Other times, it’s from cancer in another part of the body that has spread (metastasized). 
  Vision changes are not usually the only signs of a brain tumor. People often have headaches, dizziness, and changes to their other senses (like speech). 
  Though they may sound similar, there is a difference between "cloudy" and "blurry" vision.
  In addition to feeling like you're looking through a dirty or foggy window, cloudy vision can also involve:
  It's a good idea to see a healthcare provider when there are issues with your vision. This includes cloudy vision in one or both eyes, as well as:
  You should have a complete eye exam by an eye specialist (optometrist or ophthalmologist).
  Sudden cloudy vision in one or both eyes can be a sign of a problem that requires emergency medical treatment. Signs that you need to get medical help right away include:
  The treatments for cloudy vision in one or both eyes depend on what is causing it.
  Cloudy vision in one or both eyes can be caused by something simple, like eye irritation, an infection, or floaters. Cataracts, which cause vision to become cloudy with age, are another common cause and can be treated with minor surgery. More serious causes of cloudy vision include macular degeneration, diabetes, and rare problems like a stroke. 
  If you notice that your vision is cloudy, note when it started and how long you've been experiencing it, and tell your provider. Get medical attention if you have cloudy vision and other signs and symptoms of a more serious condition.
 National Eye Institute. Floaters. American Academy of Ophthalmology. What is Fuchs’ dystrophy? National Eye Institute. national Institutes of Health. Age-related macular degeneration. National Eye Institute. Diabetic retinopathy. Penn Medicine. Eye stroke. American Stroke Association. Let's talk about stroke and vision changes. American Stroke Association. Stroke symptoms. Moffitt Cancer Center. Can brain tumors affect your vision?. National Eye Institute. National Institutes of Health. Finding An Eye Doctor.  National Institute on Aging. national Institutes of Health. Aging and Your Eyes.  American Academy of Ophthalmology. Fuchs’ dystrophy treatment. National Eye Institute. Cataracts. 
By Elizabeth Yuko, PhD

Yuko has a doctorate in bioethics and medical ethics and is a freelance journalist based in New York.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.