By Pandora Amoratis For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:18 EDT, 13 October 2023   |  Updated:  15:35 EDT, 17 October 2023      8 View  comments  When it comes to style, we are all inspired by what we see; whether it be a well-dressed celebrity, a blow-your-mind catwalk presentation or even a fashionable passerby.  As fashion editors, we're moved by all of the above, and then some. We're exposed to under-the-radar labels; we get a first-hand look at collections months before they hit stores; we attend VIP events; we're tapped into brands with chic-yet-cheap offerings and we shop — a lot. To share our knowledge, FEMAIL brings you Style Swoon, a weekly series of the latest, greatest and on the verge. We hope this Friday series will serve as a buying guide and point of inspiration for all. On Monday, October 9, New Balance announced its newest collaboration with actor, entrepreneur and designer Jaden Smith for the launch of his New Balance 0.01 signature sneaker New Balance x Jaden Smith  On Monday, October 9, New Balance announced its newest collaboration with actor, entrepreneur and designer Jaden Smith for the launch of his New Balance 0.01 signature sneaker.  The 0.01 puts the 25-year old's unique spin on the shoe which draws inspiration from New Balance court styles. 'I was excited to collaborate with New Balance again on a sneaker inspired by classic New Balance court silhouettes for a new generation, creating something completely different from previous collaborations, all while maintaining my signature style and craftsmanship New Balance is known for,' said Jaden. 'The vision behind the campaign is to lift up all the misfits and outcasts on the planet currently, not just a specific subgenre of castaways, but from all different cultures and ‘walks’ of life from all over the globe.' 'The vision behind the campaign is to lift up all the misfits and outcasts on the planet currently, not just a specific subgenre of castaways, but from all different cultures and ‘walks’ of life from all over the globe,' said Jaden In the campaign, Jaden and 'the crew' are dressed in edgy black and white looks accessorized with the white sneaker that retails for $110. In one shot Jaden is dressed in a racing jacket and sans pants. In another he's lighting a model's cigarette. The sneaker silhouette is a low-top with an all-white upper with a full leather build and matching mesh tongue, with a “NB” logo printed along the upper, and a split midsole. In the campaign, Jaden and 'the crew' are dressed in edgy black and white looks accessorized with the white sneaker The silhouette is a low-top with an all-white upper with a full leather build and matching mesh tongue, with a “NB” logo printed along the upper, and a split midsole  Australian fashion brand, Bronx and Banco hosted their first ever Bridal Fashion Week show on October 12th The modern bride has more options thanks to Bronx and Banco  Australian fashion brand, Bronx and Banco hosted their first ever Bridal Fashion Week show on October 12th, premiering their 2024 Bridal Collection "La Blanche" in the Grand Palace at the Baccarat Hotel in Manhattan.  To create the collection, designer Natalie De’Banco goes back to her bridal roots where she began her career in Australia designing custom wedding dresses. For her first Bridal Fashion Week show, Natalie focused on creating alternative dress solutions for today’s modern bride For her first Bridal Fashion Week show, Natalie focused on creating alternative dress solutions for today’s modern bride.  'We want our brides to feel beautiful, express themselves with their own personal style,' she said. 'Being comfortable doesn’t mean you have to sacrifice fashion and it’s always important that the dress fits properly,' she said. The collection consists of 23 ultra-playful garments, that include dramatic high-low hems, structured mini dresses, and two-piece sets. Bronx and Banco premiered their 2024 Bridal Collection "La Blanche" in the Grand Palace at the Baccarat Hotel in Manhattan Nicky looked divine in a purple floral length gown boasting a deep V neckline and feather cuffs Notable guests in attendance were socialites Nicky Hilton Rothschild, Olivia Palermo and supermodel Coco Rocha among top influencers. Nicky looked divine in a purple floral length gown boasting a deep V neckline and feather cuffs.  Coco shined bright in a gold metallic strapless dress, while Olivia was in theme radiating in a wedding-worthy white knee-length dress.  Brides can find the collection at Bergdorf Goodman’s, Harvey Nichols, Saks Fifth Avenue and selected bridal boutique. Prices range from $1,500 to $7,500 Notable guests in attendance were socialites Nicky Hilton Rothschild, Olivia Palermo and supermodel Coco Rocha among top influencers Fashion Designer Rachel Zoe together with one of her very good friends jeweler Jennifer Meyer hosted a 'Curateur Autumnal Supper' to celebrate the arrival of fall in Los Angeles at Juniper Garden at 1 Hotel West Hollywood Rachel Zoe throws a chic party  Fashion designer Rachel Zoe, together with one of her very good friends jeweler Jennifer Meyer, hosted a 'Curateur Autumnal Supper' to celebrate the arrival of fall in Los Angeles at Juniper Garden at 1 Hotel West Hollywood.  For the elegant event, the stylist-turned-designer stayed true to her signature bohemian aesthetic wearing a a yellow Oscar de la Renta one-shoulder gown with a beaded trim. Her long blonde hair was styled in waves and parted down the middle. She accessorized with a chunky necklace and chandelier earrings. Victoria Justice, Kimora Lee Simmons, Erin Foster and more notables were in attendance for the memorable fall fête, that included a seated dinner. Kimora, Jennifer, Erin and celeb stylist Maeve Reilly all opted to wear black, while Victoria Justice stood out from the crowd in a corset top featuring a print of Botticelli's famous The Birth of Venus painting paired with brown leather pants. Jennifer Meyer, Erin Foster and celeb stylist Maeve Reilly all opted on black for the occasion Kimora Lee Simmons stunned in a little black dress and knee-high boots, while Victoria Justice opts for a corset and leather pants America's sweetheart, Dolly Parton, will be live on HSN on Friday, October 13 at 7PM and 10PM ET Dolly's going live  America's sweetheart, Dolly Parton, will be live on HSN on Friday, October 13 at 7PM and 10PM ET. Set to release her new Rockstar album on 11/17 the Grammy Award winner has partnered with the Home Shopping Network to pre-sell their version of the album. Along with really cute merch, the singer is releasing an exclusive album with HSN - the perfect holiday gift for all Dolly lovers. Items include a trucker hat, tote bag, throw blanket, mug and more. Set to release her new Rockstar album on 11/17 the Grammy Award winner has partnered with the Home Shopping Network to pre-sell their version of the album Along with the album the singer is releasing really cute merch - the perfect holiday gift for Dolly lovers  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group