Advertisement 
                June 2, 2023 | 3 min read
             

                     Listen to article
                 
4 min
 It’s the first TV ad for the bank’s corporate and commercial arm. Hot on the heels of the Succession finale, Spanish bank Santander has enlisted its protagonist Brian Cox to lead its new ad. In the spot, the seasoned actor narrates a series of ‘sliding doors’ moments, where potential business partners narrowly miss meeting each other and lose out on significant opportunities. Flipping the old saying that ‘business is all about who you know,’ this spot highlights that it is the people you don’t yet know who might lead to success. On the project, Cox said: “As soon as I saw the script, I was intrigued by the sliding doors moments and cinematic ambition. This is an ad that’s captivating and visually engaging while also being charming and intriguing. On set, it was great to work with the director Tom Hooper to bring his vision to life for Santander UK Corporate & Commercial Banking.” The TV spot was directed by Oscar-winning director Tom Hooper, known for directing The King’s Speech and Les Misérables. Dan Sherwood, marketing director at Santander UK, added: “This is the first time we have deployed television advertising to raise awareness of our Corporate & Commercial Banking business. We are delighted to have Brian Cox on board to help take the message to the nation’s businesses that Santander UK can connect them to the right partners who will help them break into new markets both in the UK and internationally.” Created by House337, the ad breaks on June 3 and will be supported by out-of-home, press, social, digital display and in-branch assets. Advertisement Jo Moore, executive creative director at House 337, commented: “The first ever assignment for Santander Corporate & Commercial Banking and what an amazing, enjoyable challenge. We were tasked with telling the business world about Santander UK’s extensive network of business connections – so who better to tell that story than the brilliant Brian Cox?” “The script flipped the old adage ‘it’s about the people you know’, letting us demonstrate Santander UK’s true point of difference. That, combined with the gravitas of Brian’s delivery and Tom Hooper’s storytelling, allowed us to create an advert that is very different to the rest of the market.” 
        © Carnyx Group Ltd 2024 | The Drum is a Registered Trademark and property of Carnyx Group Limited. All rights reserved.
    