 Now  84  Mon  93  Tue  89 by Charistin Clark TOPICS: SOUTH CAROLINA (WCIV) — The Association for the Blind and Visually Impaired (ABVI) is expanding their services across the state. ABVI has been serving the Tri-County for nearly nine decades and a new partnership will help serve more people from every age to every ability. Read more: 'She put time on my clock': Cousins become forever connected through a kidney transplant "There are 15 to 20,000 adults in the Tri-County who are living with a visual impairment," ABVI President Courtney Plotner said. "We have over 1,200 clients and growing and are trying to help more and more individuals." "As of Aug. 1, the Association for the Blind and Visually Impaired South Carolina and the Vision Institute have merged to revolutionize services for adults and children across our state," she continued. "With the merger, we're able to provide services for all ages, all people ranging from low vision to severe vision impairment to blindness, whether they are an infant or a senior," ABVI Chief Operating Officer Jeanie Farmer said.  ABVI will have new offices in the Midlands and Upstate. Their goal is to eventually be within 45 minutes of their services, which can be life-changing for those with visual impairment or blindness. "We're teaching individuals who are 95, 96 to work iPads with accessibility displays," Farmer said. "We are teaching 1-year-olds how to navigate with a cane and develop some basic orientation to their home providing school-based services. We teach all the assistive tech." These new beginnings will bring excitement to clients and to staff. Read more: NCPD officer hailed as hero after saving 2-year-old who lost arm after falling from vehicle "We are not only going to be able to provide services, but we are going to be able to provide them with the best people in our field," Plotner said. "This partnership has made us stronger and better together and we're excited to see where this goes," said Plotner. The Columbia facility, which is located in Irmo, is open now. ABVI is already serving those in the Upstate, but is still looking for a space in the Greenville area. The non-profit also received a $250,000 grant from the state government to help with their services. The cost for a client needing the full gamut of services from the non-profit is $25,000.