Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A small memorial of flowers, toys and candles at the front door of 1106 Railroad St. is the only sign that a terrible crime occurred in the North Catasauqua home.Authorities have offered only the barest details: a 39-year-old woman and a 16-year-old girl were found dead there by relatives late Thursday morning, and the deaths were ruled homicides.Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek said the pair — identified by friends and neighbors as mother and daughter — sustained “sharp force injuries,” indicating they were stabbed.Northampton County District Attorney Terry Houck on Saturday said only that the case remains under investigation. State Police spokesperson Trooper Nathan Branosky said no more information would be released this weekend.Houck on Thursday said there is no danger to the public but did not say why that is. He has not indicated whether police have a suspect or a motive in the killings.Public records listed relatives for the woman who lived at the house. One hung up after a reporter identified himself and others did not respond to messages.Golde Mari, who knew the mother and daughter for about five years through their Bethlehem church, said she recently attended the girl’s Sweet 16 party and was often part of their family events.The mother, who came from the Philippines, was divorced in 2014, public records show.

“I’ve known [the mother] as a larger-than-life person,” Mari said. “She’s good at singing and dancing.”Mari said the mother was also busy with work, though she wasn’t sure what kind of job she held.“I understand that she liked working, and worked whenever she could,” Mari said.The girl had an account on the VSCO app that features moody photos of sunsets and landscapes around the Lehigh Valley and a few selfies where she is playfully sticking out her tongue. She also had a TikTok account with videos in which she lip-synchs to songs.On Saturday morning, a woman and her son who didn’t know the family but wanted to pay their respects left a honeysuckle-scented candle among the pink and white roses and chrysanthemums on the doorstep.“We just looked honeysuckle up and it stands for sweetness of life,” the woman said. “So it was meant to be, I guess.”Police investigate North Catasauqua double homicide | PHOTOS Authorities have offered only the barest details: a 39-year-old woman and a 16-year-old girl were found dead there by relatives late Thursday morning, and the deaths were ruled homicides. Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek said the pair — identified by friends and neighbors as mother and daughter — sustained “sharp force injuries,” indicating they were stabbed. Northampton County District Attorney Terry Houck on Saturday said only that the case remains under investigation. State Police spokesperson Trooper Nathan Branosky said no more information would be released this weekend. Houck on Thursday said there is no danger to the public but did not say why that is. He has not indicated whether police have a suspect or a motive in the killings. Public records listed relatives for the woman who lived at the house. One hung up after a reporter identified himself and others did not respond to messages. Golde Mari, who knew the mother and daughter for about five years through their Bethlehem church, said she recently attended the girl’s Sweet 16 party and was often part of their family events. The mother, who came from the Philippines, was divorced in 2014, public records show. “I’ve known [the mother] as a larger-than-life person,” Mari said. “She’s good at singing and dancing.” Mari said the mother was also busy with work, though she wasn’t sure what kind of job she held. “I understand that she liked working, and worked whenever she could,” Mari said. The girl had an account on the VSCO app that features moody photos of sunsets and landscapes around the Lehigh Valley and a few selfies where she is playfully sticking out her tongue. She also had a TikTok account with videos in which she lip-synchs to songs. On Saturday morning, a woman and her son who didn’t know the family but wanted to pay their respects left a honeysuckle-scented candle among the pink and white roses and chrysanthemums on the doorstep. “We just looked honeysuckle up and it stands for sweetness of life,” the woman said. “So it was meant to be, I guess.” Police investigate North Catasauqua double homicide | PHOTOS  Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call